Item 1A of this report.

     You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular
statement.

                                        ii


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

                                  OUR BUSINESS

  OVERVIEW

     We are a public utility holding company whose indirect wholly owned
subsidiaries include:

     - CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC (CenterPoint Houston), which
       provides electric transmission and distribution services to retail
       electric providers serving approximately 1.9 million metered customers in
       a 5,000-square-mile area of the Texas Gulf Coast that has a population of
       approximately 4.8 million people and includes Houston; and

     - CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (CERC Corp. and, together with its
       subsidiaries, CERC), which owns gas distribution systems serving
       approximately 3.1 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
       Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas. Through wholly owned subsidiaries, CERC
       also owns two interstate natural gas pipelines and gas gathering systems,
       provides various ancillary services, and offers variable and fixed-price
       physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial
       customers and electric and gas utilities.

     Our reportable business segments are Electric Transmission & Distribution,
Natural Gas Distribution, Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services, Pipelines
and Field Services (formerly Pipelines and Gathering), and Other Operations. The
operations of Texas Genco Holdings, Inc. (Texas Genco), formerly our majority
owned generating subsidiary, the sale of which was completed in April 2005, are
presented as discontinued operations.

     We were a registered public utility holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (the 1935 Act). The 1935 Act and
related rules and regulations imposed a number of restrictions on our activities
and those of our subsidiaries. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act)
repealed the 1935 Act effective February 8, 2006, and since that date we and our
subsidiaries have no longer been subject to restrictions imposed under the 1935
Act. The Energy Act includes a new Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005
(PUHCA 2005), which grants to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
authority to require holding companies and their subsidiaries to maintain
certain books and records and make them available for review by the FERC and
state regulatory authorities in certain circumstances. On December 8, 2005, the
FERC issued rules implementing PUHCA 2005 that will require us to notify the
FERC of our status as a holding company and to maintain certain books and
records and make these available to the FERC. The FERC continues to consider
motions for rehearing or clarification of these rules.

     Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana, Houston,
Texas 77002 (telephone number: 713-207-1111).

     We make available free of charge on our Internet website our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, we make available free
of charge on our Internet website:

     - our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
       Officers;

     - our Ethics and Compliance Code;

     - our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

     - the charters of our audit, compensation, finance and governance
       committees.

     Any shareholder who so requests may obtain a printed copy of any of these
documents from us. Changes in or waivers of our Code of Ethics for our Chief
Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and waivers of our Ethics and
Compliance Code for directors or executive officers will be posted on our
Internet website

                                        1


within five business days and maintained for at least 12 months or reported on
Item 5.05 of our Forms 8-K. Our website address is www.centerpointenergy.com.
Except to the extent explicitly stated herein, documents and information on our
website are not incorporated by reference herein.

  ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION

  Electric Transmission

     On behalf of retail electric providers, CenterPoint Houston delivers
electricity from power plants to substations and from one substation to another
and to retail electric customers taking power above 69 kilovolts (kV) in
locations throughout the control area managed by the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas, Inc. (ERCOT). CenterPoint Houston provides transmission
services under tariffs approved by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (Texas
Utility Commission).

  Electric Distribution

     In ERCOT, end users purchase their electricity directly from certificated
"retail electric providers." CenterPoint Houston delivers electricity for retail
electric providers in its certificated service area by carrying lower-voltage
power from the substation to the retail electric customer. Its distribution
network receives electricity from the transmission grid through power
distribution substations and delivers electricity to end users through
distribution feeders. CenterPoint Houston's operations include construction and
maintenance of electric transmission and distribution facilities, metering
services, outage response services and call center operations. CenterPoint
Houston provides distribution services under tariffs approved by the Texas
Utility Commission. Texas Utility Commission rules and market protocols govern
the commercial operations of distribution companies and other market
participants.

  ERCOT Market Framework

     CenterPoint Houston is a member of ERCOT. ERCOT serves as the regional
reliability coordinating council for member electric power systems in Texas.
ERCOT membership is open to consumer groups, investor and municipally owned
electric utilities, rural electric cooperatives, independent generators, power
marketers and retail electric providers. The ERCOT market includes much of the
State of Texas, other than a portion of the panhandle, a portion of the eastern
part of the state bordering Louisiana and the area in and around El Paso. The
ERCOT market represents approximately 85% of the demand for power in Texas and
is one of the nation's largest power markets. The ERCOT market includes an
aggregate net generating capacity of approximately 77,000 megawatts. There are
only limited direct current interconnections between the ERCOT market and other
power markets in the United States.

     The ERCOT market operates under the reliability standards set by the North
American Electric Reliability Council. The Texas Utility Commission has primary
jurisdiction over the ERCOT market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of
electricity supply across the state's main interconnected power transmission
grid. The ERCOT independent system operator (ERCOT ISO) is responsible for
maintaining reliable operations of the bulk electric power supply system in the
ERCOT market. Its responsibilities include ensuring that electricity production
and delivery are accurately accounted for among the generation resources and
wholesale buyers and sellers. Unlike certain other regional power markets, the
ERCOT market is not a centrally dispatched power pool, and the ERCOT ISO does
not procure energy on behalf of its members other than to maintain the reliable
operations of the transmission system. Members who sell and purchase power are
responsible for contracting sales and purchases of power bilaterally. The ERCOT
ISO also serves as agent for procuring ancillary services for those members who
elect not to provide their own ancillary services.

     CenterPoint Houston's electric transmission business, along with those of
other owners of transmission facilities in Texas, supports the operation of the
ERCOT ISO. The transmission business has planning, design, construction,
operation and maintenance responsibility for the portion of the transmission
grid and for the load-serving substations it owns, primarily within its
certificated area. We participate with the ERCOT ISO and other ERCOT utilities
to plan, design, obtain regulatory approval for and construct new transmission
lines

                                        2


necessary to increase bulk power transfer capability and to remove existing
constraints on the ERCOT transmission grid.

  True-Up and Securitization

     The Texas Electric Choice Plan (Texas electric restructuring law), which
became effective in September 1999, substantially amended the regulatory
structure governing electric utilities in order to allow retail competition for
electric customers beginning in January 2002. The Texas electric restructuring
law requires the Texas Utility Commission to conduct a "true-up" proceeding to
determine CenterPoint Houston's stranded costs and certain other costs resulting
from the transition to a competitive retail electric market and to provide for
its recovery of those costs. In March 2004, CenterPoint Houston filed its
true-up application with the Texas Utility Commission, requesting recovery of
$3.7 billion, excluding interest. In December 2004, the Texas Utility Commission
issued its final order (True-Up Order) allowing CenterPoint Houston to recover a
true-up balance of approximately $2.3 billion, which included interest through
August 31, 2004, and providing for adjustment of the amount to be recovered to
include interest on the balance until recovery, the principal portion of
additional excess mitigation credits returned to customers after August 31, 2004
and certain other matters. CenterPoint Houston and other parties filed appeals
of the True-Up Order to a district court in Travis County, Texas. In August
2005, the court issued its final judgment on the various appeals. In its
judgment, the court affirmed most aspects of the True-Up Order, but reversed two
of the Texas Utility Commission's rulings. The judgment would have the effect of
restoring approximately $650 million, plus interest, of the $1.7 billion the
Texas Utility Commission had disallowed from CenterPoint Houston's initial
request. First, the court reversed the Texas Utility Commission's decision to
prohibit CenterPoint Houston from recovering $180 million in credits through
August 2004 that CenterPoint Houston was ordered to provide to retail electric
providers as a result of an inaccurate stranded cost estimate made by the Texas
Utility Commission in 2000. Additional credits of approximately $30 million were
paid after August 2004. Second, the court reversed the Texas Utility
Commission's disallowance of $440 million in transition costs which are
recoverable under the Texas Utility Commission's regulations. CenterPoint
Houston and other parties appealed the district court decisions. Briefs have
been filed with the 3rd Court of Appeals in Austin but oral argument has not yet
been scheduled.

     Among the issues raised in our appeal of the True-Up Order is the Texas
Utility Commission's reduction of our stranded cost recovery by approximately
$146 million for the present value of certain deferred tax benefits associated
with our former Texas Genco assets. Such reduction was considered in our
recording of an after-tax extraordinary loss of $977 million in the last half of
2004. We believe that the Texas Utility Commission based its order on proposed
regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in March 2003 related
to those tax benefits. Those proposed regulations would have allowed utilities
which were deregulated before March 4, 2003 to make a retroactive election to
pass the benefits of Accumulated Deferred Investment Tax Credits (ADITC) and
Excess Deferred Federal Income Taxes (EDFIT) back to customers. However, in
December 2005, the IRS withdrew those proposed normalization regulations and
issued new proposed regulations that do not include the provision allowing a
retroactive election to pass the tax benefits back to customers. If the December
2005 proposed regulations become effective and if the Texas Utility Commission's
order on this issue is not reversed on appeal or the amount of the tax benefits
is not otherwise restored by the Texas Utility Commission, the IRS is likely to
consider that a "normalization violation" has occurred. If so, the IRS could
require us to pay an amount equal to CenterPoint Houston's unamortized ADITC
balance as of the date that the normalization violation was deemed to have
occurred. In addition, if a normalization violation is deemed to have occurred,
the IRS could also deny CenterPoint Houston the ability to elect accelerated
depreciation benefits. The Texas Utility Commission has not previously required
a company subject to its jurisdiction to take action that would result in a
normalization violation.

     There are two ways for CenterPoint Houston to recover the true-up balance:
by issuing transition bonds to securitize the amounts due and/or by implementing
a competition transition charge (CTC). Pursuant to a financing order issued by
the Texas Utility Commission in March 2005 and affirmed in all respects in
August 2005 by the same Travis County District Court considering the appeal of
the True-Up Order, in December 2005 a subsidiary of CenterPoint Houston issued
$1.85 billion in transition bonds with interest rates ranging

                                        3


from 4.84 percent to 5.30 percent and final maturity dates ranging from February
2011 to August 2020. Through issuance of the transition bonds, CenterPoint
Houston recovered approximately $1.7 billion of the true-up balance determined
in the True-Up Order plus interest through the date on which the bonds were
issued.

     In July 2005, CenterPoint Houston received an order from the Texas Utility
Commission allowing it to implement a CTC which will collect approximately $596
million over 14 years plus interest at an annual rate of 11.075 percent (CTC
Order). The CTC Order authorizes CenterPoint Houston to impose a charge on
retail electric providers to recover the portion of the true-up balance not
covered by the financing order. The CTC Order also allows CenterPoint Houston to
collect approximately $24 million of rate case expenses over three years through
a separate tariff rider (Rider RCE). CenterPoint Houston implemented the CTC and
Rider RCE effective September 13, 2005 and began recovering approximately $620
million. Certain parties appealed the CTC Order to the Travis County Court in
September 2005.

     Under the True-Up Order, CenterPoint Houston is allowed to recover carrying
charges at 11.075 percent until the true-up balance is recovered. In January
2006, the Texas Utility Commission staff (Staff) proposed that the Texas Utility
Commission adopt new rules governing the carrying charges on unrecovered true-up
balances. If the Texas Utility Commission adopts the rule as the Staff proposed
it and the rule is deemed to apply to CenterPoint Houston, the rule would reduce
carrying costs on the unrecovered CTC balance prospectively from 11.075 percent
to the utility's cost of debt.

  CenterPoint Houston Rate Case

     The Texas Utility Commission requires each electric utility to file an
annual Earnings Report providing certain information to enable the Texas Utility
Commission to monitor the electric utilities' earnings and financial condition
within the state. In May 2005, CenterPoint Houston filed its Earnings Report for
the calendar year ended December 31, 2004. CenterPoint Houston's Earnings Report
shows that it earned less than its authorized rate of return on equity in 2004.

     In October 2005, the Staff filed a memorandum summarizing its review of the
Earnings Reports filed by electric utilities. Based on its review, the Staff
concluded that continuation of CenterPoint Houston's rates could result in
excess retail transmission and distribution revenues of as much as $105 million
and excess wholesale transmission revenues of as much as $31 million annually
and recommended that the Texas Utility Commission initiate a review of the
reasonableness of existing rates. The Staff's analysis was based on a 9.60
percent cost of equity, which is 165 basis points lower than the approved return
on equity from CenterPoint Houston's last rate proceeding, the elimination of
interest on debt that matured in November 2005 and certain other adjustments to
CenterPoint Houston's reported information. Additionally, a hypothetical capital
structure of 60 percent debt and 40 percent equity was used which varies
materially from the actual capital structure of CenterPoint Houston as of
December 31, 2005 of approximately 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity.

     In December 2005, the Texas Utility Commission considered the Staff report
and agreed to initiate a rate proceeding concerning the reasonableness of
CenterPoint Houston's existing rates for transmission and distribution service
and to require CenterPoint Houston to make a filing by April 15, 2006 to justify
or change those rates.

     These and other significant matters currently affecting our financial
condition are further discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Executive
Summary -- Significant Events in 2005" in Item 7 of this report.

  Customers

     CenterPoint Houston serves nearly all of the Houston/Galveston metropolitan
area. CenterPoint Houston's customers consist of 66 retail electric providers,
which sell electricity in its certificated service area, and municipalities,
electric cooperatives and other distribution companies located outside
CenterPoint Houston's certificated service area. Each retail electric provider
is licensed by, and must meet creditworthiness

                                        4


criteria established by, the Texas Utility Commission. Two of the retail
electric providers in our service area are subsidiaries of Reliant Energy, Inc
(RRI). Sales to subsidiaries of RRI represented approximately 78%, 71% and 62%
of CenterPoint Houston's transmission and distribution revenues in 2003, 2004
and 2005, respectively. CenterPoint Houston's billed receivables balance from
retail electric providers as of December 31, 2005 was $127 million.
Approximately 56% of this amount was owed by subsidiaries of RRI. CenterPoint
Houston does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers. It operates
on a continuous billing cycle, with meter readings being conducted and invoices
being distributed to retail electric providers each business day.

  Distribution Automation

     CenterPoint Houston, with assistance from IBM, has developed an Electric
Distribution Grid Automation Strategy that involves the implementation of an
"Intelligent Grid". An Intelligent Grid has the potential to provide us with on
demand data and information that should enable a significant improvement in grid
planning, operations and maintenance. This, in turn, should contribute to fewer
and shorter outages, better customer service, improved operations costs,
improved security and more effective use of the workforce. A limited system
deployment, with an expected capital cost of $11 million in 2006, has been
initiated and allows for a disciplined approach to proving the technology and
validating potential benefits prior to a full-scale implementation. The outcome
of this limited deployment will be a major factor in any decision to expand the
deployment in 2007 and beyond.

  Competition

     There are no other electric transmission and distribution utilities in
CenterPoint Houston's service area. In order for another provider of
transmission and distribution services to provide such services in CenterPoint
Houston's territory, it would be required to obtain a certificate of convenience
and necessity from the Texas Utility Commission and, depending on the location
of the facilities, may also be required to obtain franchises from one or more
municipalities. We know of no other party intending to enter this business in
CenterPoint Houston's service area at this time.

  Seasonality

     A significant portion of CenterPoint Houston's revenues is derived from
rates that it collects from each retail electric provider based on the amount of
electricity it distributes on behalf of such retail electric provider. Thus,
CenterPoint Houston's revenues and results of operations are subject to
seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity usage, with
revenues being higher during the warmer months.

  Properties

     All of CenterPoint Houston's properties are located in Texas. CenterPoint
Houston's transmission system carries electricity from power plants to
substations and from one substation to another. These substations serve to
connect power plants, the high voltage transmission lines and the lower voltage
distribution lines. Unlike the transmission system, which carries high voltage
electricity over long distances, distribution lines carry lower voltage power
from the substation to the retail electric customers. The distribution system
consists primarily of distribution lines, transformers, secondary distribution
lines and service wires and meters. Most of CenterPoint Houston's transmission
and distribution lines have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to
easements or along public highways and streets as permitted by law.

     All real and tangible properties of CenterPoint Houston, subject to certain
exclusions, are currently subject to:

     - the lien of a Mortgage and Deed of Trust (the Mortgage) dated November 1,
       1944, as supplemented; and

     - the lien of a General Mortgage (the General Mortgage) dated October 10,
       2002, as supplemented, which is junior to the lien of the Mortgage.

                                        5


     As of December 31, 2005, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding $2.0 billion
aggregate principal amount of general mortgage bonds under the General Mortgage,
including approximately $527 million held in trust to secure pollution control
bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated and approximately $229 million
held in trust to secure pollution control bonds for which CenterPoint Houston is
obligated. Additionally, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding approximately $253
million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds under the Mortgage,
including approximately $151 million held in trust to secure certain pollution
control bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated. CenterPoint Houston may
issue additional general mortgage bonds on the basis of retired bonds, 70% of
property additions or cash deposited with the trustee. Approximately $2.0
billion of additional first mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds could be
issued on the basis of retired bonds and 70% of property additions as of
December 31, 2005. However, CenterPoint Houston is contractually prohibited,
subject to certain exceptions, from issuing additional first mortgage bonds.

     Electric Lines -- Overhead.  As of December 31, 2005, CenterPoint Houston
owned 27,026 pole miles of overhead distribution lines and 3,621 circuit miles
of overhead transmission lines, including 451 circuit miles operated at 69,000
volts, 2,093 circuit miles operated at 138,000 volts and 1,077 circuit miles
operated at 345,000 volts.

     Electric Lines -- Underground.  As of December 31, 2005, CenterPoint
Houston owned 16,662 circuit miles of underground distribution lines and 18.8
circuit miles of underground transmission lines, including 4.5 circuit miles
operated at 69,000 volts and 14.3 circuit miles operated at 138,000 volts.

     Substations.  As of December 31, 2005, CenterPoint Houston owned 225 major
substation sites having total installed rated transformer capacity of 47,864
megavolt amperes.

     Service Centers.  CenterPoint Houston operates 16 regional service centers
located on a total of 311 acres of land. These service centers consist of office
buildings, warehouses and repair facilities that are used in the business of
transmitting and distributing electricity.

  Franchises

     CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from the incorporated
municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for payment of fees, these
franchises give CenterPoint Houston the right to use the streets and public
rights-of way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its
electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit.
The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from
5 to 50 years.

     In June 2005, CenterPoint Houston accepted an ordinance granting it a new
30-year franchise to use the public rights-of-way to conduct its business in the
City of Houston (New Franchise Ordinance). The New Franchise Ordinance took
effect on July 1, 2005, and replaced the prior electricity franchise ordinance,
which had been in effect since 1957. The New Franchise Ordinance clarifies
certain operational obligations of CenterPoint Houston and the City of Houston
and provides for streamlined payment and audit procedures and a two-year statute
of limitations on claims for underpayment or overpayment under the ordinance.
Under the prior electricity franchise ordinance, CenterPoint Houston paid annual
franchise fees of $76.6 million to the City of Houston for the year ended
December 31, 2004. For the twelve-month period beginning July 1, 2005, the
annual franchise fee (Annual Franchise Fee) under the New Franchise Ordinance
will include a base amount of $88.1 million (Base Amount) and an additional
payment of $8.5 million (Additional Amount). The Base Amount and the Additional
Amount will be adjusted annually based on the increase, if any, in kWh delivered
by CenterPoint Houston within the City of Houston.

     CenterPoint Houston began paying the new annual franchise fees on July 1,
2005. Pursuant to the New Franchise Ordinance, the Annual Franchise Fee will be
reduced prospectively to reflect any portion of the Annual Franchise Fee that is
not included in CenterPoint Houston's base rates in any subsequent rate case.

                                        6


  NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION

     CERC's natural gas distribution business engages in regulated intrastate
natural gas sales to, and natural gas transportation for, residential,
commercial and industrial customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas through two unincorporated divisions: Minnesota
Gas and Southern Gas Operations.

     Minnesota Gas provides natural gas distribution services to approximately
780,000 customers in over 240 communities. The largest metropolitan area served
by Minnesota Gas is Minneapolis. In 2005, approximately 44% of Minnesota Gas'
total throughput was attributable to residential customers and approximately 56%
was attributable to commercial and industrial customers. Minnesota Gas also
provides unregulated services consisting of heating, ventilating and air
conditioning (HVAC) equipment and appliance repair, sales of HVAC, water heating
and hearth equipment and home security monitoring.

     Southern Gas Operations provides natural gas distribution services to
approximately 2.3 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
Oklahoma and Texas. The largest metropolitan areas served by Southern Gas
Operations are Houston, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas; Shreveport, Louisiana;
Biloxi, Mississippi; and Lawton, Oklahoma. In 2005, approximately 42% of
Southern Gas Operations' total throughput was attributable to residential
customers and approximately 58% was attributable to commercial and industrial
customers.

     The demand for intrastate natural gas sales to, and natural gas
transportation for, residential, commercial and industrial customers is
seasonal. In 2005, approximately 70% of the total throughput of CERC's local
distribution companies' business occurred in the first and fourth quarters.
These patterns reflect the higher demand for natural gas for heating purposes
during those periods.

     Supply and Transportation.  In 2005, Minnesota Gas purchased virtually all
of its natural gas supply pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying
from a few months to four years. Minnesota Gas' major suppliers in 2005 included
BP Canada Energy Marketing Corp. (54% of supply volumes), Tenaska Marketing
Ventures (11%), ONEOK Energy Services Company, LP (7%) and ConocoPhillips
Company (5%). Numerous other suppliers provided the remaining 23% of Minnesota
Gas' natural gas supply requirements. Minnesota Gas transports its natural gas
supplies through various interstate pipelines under contracts with remaining
terms, including extensions, varying from one to sixteen years. We anticipate
that these gas supply and transportation contracts will be renewed prior to
their expiration.

     In 2005, Southern Gas Operations purchased virtually all of its natural gas
supply pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying from a few months to
five years. Southern Gas Operations' major suppliers in 2005 included Energy
Transfer Company (24% of supply volumes), Kinder Morgan Texas Pipeline
Corporation (18%), BP Energy Company (12%), Merrill Lynch Commodities (9%),
ONEOK Energy Services Company, LP (7%), and Coral Energy LLC (5%). Numerous
other suppliers provided the remaining 25% of Southern Gas Operations' natural
gas supply requirements. Southern Gas Operations transports its natural gas
supplies through various intrastate and interstate pipelines including
CenterPoint Energy's pipeline subsidiaries.

     Generally, the regulations of the states in which CERC's natural gas
distribution business operates allow it to pass through changes in the costs of
natural gas to its customers under purchased gas adjustment provisions in its
tariffs. Depending upon the jurisdiction, the purchased gas adjustment factors
are updated periodically, ranging from monthly to semi-annually, using estimated
gas costs. The changes in the cost of gas billed to customers are subject to
review by the applicable regulatory bodies.

     Minnesota Gas and Southern Gas Operations use various leased or owned
natural gas storage facilities to meet peak-day requirements and to manage the
daily changes in demand due to changes in weather. Minnesota Gas also
supplements contracted supplies and storage from time to time with stored
liquefied natural gas and propane-air plant production.

     Minnesota Gas owns and operates an underground storage facility with a
capacity of 7.0 billion cubic feet (Bcf). It has a working capacity of 2.1 Bcf
available for use during a normal heating season and a maximum

                                        7


daily withdrawal rate of 50 million cubic feet (MMcf). It also owns nine
propane-air plants with a total capacity of 204 MMcf per day and on-site storage
facilities for 12 million gallons of propane (1.0 Bcf gas equivalent). Minnesota
Gas owns liquefied natural gas plant facilities with a 12 million-gallon
liquefied natural gas storage tank (1.0 Bcf gas equivalent) and a send-out
capability of 72 MMcf per day.

     On an ongoing basis, CERC enters into contracts to provide sufficient
supplies and pipeline capacity to meet its customer requirements. However, it is
possible for limited service disruptions of interruptible customers' load to
occur from time to time due to weather conditions, transportation constraints
and other events. As a result of these factors, supplies of natural gas may
become unavailable from time to time, or prices may increase rapidly in response
to temporary supply constraints or other factors.

  Assets

     As of December 31, 2005, CERC owned approximately 66,000 linear miles of
gas distribution mains, varying in size from one-half inch to 24 inches in
diameter. Generally, in each of the cities, towns and rural areas served by
CERC, we own the underground gas mains and service lines, metering and
regulating equipment located on customers' premises and the district regulating
equipment necessary for pressure maintenance. With a few exceptions, the
measuring stations at which CERC receives gas are owned, operated and maintained
by others, and its distribution facilities begin at the outlet of the measuring
equipment. These facilities, including odorizing equipment, are usually located
on the land owned by suppliers.

  Competition

     CERC competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity
and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other gas
distributors and marketers also compete directly for gas sales to end-users. In
addition, as a result of federal regulations affecting interstate pipelines,
natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass CERC's
facilities and market and sell and/or transport natural gas directly to
commercial and industrial customers.

  COMPETITIVE NATURAL GAS SALES AND SERVICES

     CERC offers variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas supplies
primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and gas utilities
through a number of subsidiaries, primarily CenterPoint Energy Services, Inc.
(CES). We have reorganized the oversight of our Natural Gas Distribution
business segment and, as a result, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, we
have established a new reportable business segment, Competitive Natural Gas
Sales and Services. These operations were previously reported as part of the
Natural Gas Distribution business segment.

     In 2005, CES marketed approximately 538 Bcf (including 27 Bcf to
affiliates) of natural gas, transportation and related energy services to nearly
7,000 customers which vary in size from small commercial to large utility
companies in the central and eastern regions of the United States. The business
has three operational functions: wholesale, retail and intrastate pipelines
further described below.

     Wholesale Operations.  CES offers a portfolio of physical delivery services
and financial products designed to meet wholesale customers' supply and price
risk management needs. These customers are served directly through interconnects
with various inter- and intra-state pipeline companies, and include gas
utilities, large industrial and electric generation customers.

     Retail Operations.  CES also offers a variety of natural gas management
services to smaller commercial and industrial customers, whose facilities are
located downstream of natural gas distribution utility city gate stations,
including load forecasting, supply acquisition, daily swing volume management,
invoice consolidation, storage asset management, firm and interruptible
transportation administration and forward price management. CES manages
transportation contracts and energy supply for retail customers in ten states.

     Intrastate Pipeline Operations.  Another wholly owned subsidiary of CERC
owns and operates approximately 210 miles of intrastate pipeline in Louisiana
and Texas. This subsidiary provides bundled and unbundled merchant and
transportation services to shippers and end-users.
                                        8


     CES currently transports natural gas on over 30 pipelines throughout the
central and eastern United States. CES maintains a portfolio of natural gas
supply contracts and firm transportation agreements to meet the natural gas
requirements of its customers. CES aggregates supply from various producing
regions and offers contracts to buy natural gas with terms ranging from one
month to over five years. In addition, CES actively participates in the spot
natural gas markets in an effort to balance daily and monthly purchases and
sales obligations. Natural gas supply and transportation capabilities are
leveraged through contracts for ancillary services including physical storage
and other balancing arrangements.

     As described above, CES offers its customers a variety of load following
services. In providing these services, CES uses its customers' purchase
commitments to forecast and arrange its own supply purchases and transportation
services to serve customers' natural gas requirements. As a result of the
variance between this forecast activity and the actual monthly activity, CES
will either have too much supply or too little supply relative to its customers'
purchase commitments. These supply imbalances arise each month as customers'
natural gas requirements are scheduled and corresponding natural gas supplies
are nominated by CES for delivery to those customers. CES' processes and risk
control environment are designed to measure and value all supply imbalances on a
real-time basis to ensure that CES' exposure to commodity price and volume risk
is kept to a minimum. The value assigned to these volumetric imbalances is
calculated daily and is known as the aggregate Value at Risk (VaR). In 2005,
CES' VaR averaged $0.5 million with a high of $3 million.

     The CenterPoint Energy Risk Control policy, governed by the Risk Oversight
Committee, defines authorized and prohibited trading instruments and volumetric
trading limits. CES is a physical marketer of natural gas and uses a variety of
tools, including pipeline and storage capacity, financial instruments and
physical commodity purchase contracts to support its sales. The CES business
optimizes its use of these various tools to minimize its supply costs and does
not engage in proprietary or speculative commodity trading. The VaR limits
within which CES operates are consistent with its operational objective of
matching its aggregate sales obligations (including the swing associated with
load following services) with its supply portfolio in a manner that minimizes
its total cost of supply.

  Competition

     CES competes with regional and national wholesale and retail gas marketers
including the marketing divisions of natural gas producers and utilities. In
addition, CES competes with intrastate pipelines for customers and services in
its market areas.

  PIPELINES AND FIELD SERVICES

     CERC's pipelines and field services business operates two interstate
natural gas pipelines, as well as gas gathering and processing facilities and
also provides operating and technical services and remote data monitoring and
communication services. The rates charged by interstate pipelines for interstate
transportation and storage services are regulated by the FERC.

     CERC owns and operates gas transmission lines primarily located in
Arkansas, Illinois, Louisiana, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas. CERC's pipeline
operations are primarily conducted by two wholly owned interstate pipeline
subsidiaries which provide gas transportation and storage services primarily to
industrial customers and local distribution companies:

     - CenterPoint Energy Gas Transmission Company (CEGT) is an interstate
       pipeline that provides natural gas transportation, natural gas storage
       and pipeline services to customers principally in Arkansas, Louisiana,
       Oklahoma and Texas; and

     - CenterPoint Energy-Mississippi River Transmission Corporation (MRT) is an
       interstate pipeline that provides natural gas transportation, natural gas
       storage and pipeline services to customers principally in Arkansas and
       Missouri.

     CERC's pipeline project management and facility operation services are
provided to affiliates and third parties through a wholly owned pipeline
services subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Pipeline Services, Inc.

                                        9


     CERC's field services operations are conducted by a wholly owned
subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Field Services, Inc. (CEFS). CEFS provides
natural gas gathering and processing services for certain natural gas fields in
the Midcontinent basin of the United States that interconnect with CEGT's and
MRT's pipelines, as well as other interstate and intrastate pipelines. CEFS
operates gathering pipelines, which collect natural gas from approximately 200
separate systems located in major producing fields in Arkansas, Louisiana,
Oklahoma and Texas. CEFS, either directly, or through its 50% interest in the
Waskom Joint Venture, processes in excess of 240 MMcf per day of natural gas
along its gathering system. CEFS, through its ServiceStar operating division,
provides remote data monitoring and communications services to affiliates and
third parties. The ServiceStar operating division currently provides monitoring
activities at 9,100 locations across Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois,
Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and
Wyoming.

     In 2005, approximately 20% of our total operating revenue from pipelines
and field services was attributable to services provided to Southern Gas
Operations and approximately 7% was attributable to services provided to Laclede
Gas Company (Laclede), an unaffiliated distribution company that provides
natural gas utility service to the greater St. Louis metropolitan area in
Illinois and Missouri. Services to Southern Gas Operations and Laclede are
provided under several long-term firm storage and transportation agreements. The
agreement to provide services to Laclede expires in 2007. We expect that this
agreement will be renewed prior to its expiration. Agreements for firm
transportation, "no notice" transportation service and storage service in
Southern Gas Operations' major service areas (Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma)
expire in 2012.

     In October 2005, CEGT signed a firm transportation agreement with XTO
Energy to transport 600 MMcf per day of natural gas from Carthage, Texas to
CEGT's Perryville hub in Northeast Louisiana. To accommodate this transaction,
CEGT is in the process of filing applications for certificates with the FERC to
build a 172 mile, 42-inch diameter pipeline, and related compression facilities
at an estimated cost of $400 million. The final capacity of the pipeline will be
between 960 MMcf per day and 1.24 Bcf per day. CEGT expects to have firm
contracts for the full capacity of the pipeline prior to its expected in service
date in early 2007. During the four year period subsequent to the in service
date of the pipeline, XTO can request, and subject to mutual negotiations that
meet specific financial parameters, CEGT would construct a 67 mile extension
from CEGT's Perryville hub to an interconnect with Texas Eastern Gas
Transmission at Union Church, Mississippi.

     Our pipelines and field services business operations may be affected by
changes in the demand for natural gas, the available supply and relative price
of natural gas in the Midcontinent and Gulf Coast natural gas supply regions and
general economic conditions.

  Assets

     We own and operate approximately 8,200 miles of gas transmission lines
primarily located in Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and
Texas. We also own and operate six natural gas storage fields with a combined
daily deliverability of approximately 1.2 Bcf per day and a combined working gas
capacity of approximately 59.0 Bcf. We also own a 10% interest in Gulf South
Pipeline Company, LP's Bistineau storage facility. This facility has a total
working gas capacity of 85.7 Bcf and approximately 1.1 Bcf per day of
deliverability. Storage capacity in the Bistineau facility is 8 Bcf of working
gas with 100 MMcf per day of deliverability. Most storage operations are in
north Louisiana and Oklahoma. We also own and operate approximately 4,000 miles
of gathering pipelines that collect, treat and process natural gas from
approximately 200 separate systems located in major producing fields in
Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas.

  Competition

     Our pipelines and field services business competes with other interstate
and intrastate pipelines and gathering companies in the transportation and
storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines
are rates, terms of service, and flexibility and reliability of service. Our
pipelines and field services business competes indirectly with other forms of
energy available to our customers, including

                                        10


electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price.
Changes in the availability of energy and pipeline capacity, the level of
business activity, conservation and governmental regulations, the capability to
convert to alternative fuels, and other factors, including weather, affect the
demand for natural gas in areas we serve and the level of competition for
transportation and storage services. In addition, competition for our gathering
operations is impacted by commodity pricing levels because of their influence on
the level of drilling activity. Both pipeline services and ServiceStar compete
with other similar service companies based on market pricing. The principal
elements of competition are rates, terms of service and reliability of services.

  OTHER OPERATIONS

     Our Other Operations business segment includes office buildings and other
real estate used in our business operations and other corporate operations which
support all of our business operations.

  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     In July 2004, we announced our agreement to sell our majority owned
subsidiary, Texas Genco, to Texas Genco LLC. On December 15, 2004, Texas Genco
completed the sale of its fossil generation assets (coal, lignite and gas-fired
plants) to Texas Genco LLC for $2.813 billion in cash. Following the sale, Texas
Genco, whose principal remaining asset was its ownership interest in a nuclear
generating facility, distributed $2.231 billion in cash to us. The final step of
the transaction, the merger of Texas Genco with a subsidiary of Texas Genco LLC
in exchange for an additional cash payment to us of $700 million, was completed
on April 13, 2005.

     We recorded an after-tax gain (loss) of $91 million, $(133) million and
$(3) million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively,
related to the operations of Texas Genco. The consolidated financial statements
report these operations for all periods presented as discontinued operations in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."

  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

     For financial information about our segments, see Note 14 to our
consolidated financial statements, which note is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                   REGULATION

     We are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local
governmental agencies, including the regulations described below.

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1935

     As a registered public utility holding company under the 1935 Act, we and
our subsidiaries were subject to a comprehensive regulatory scheme imposed by
the SEC. Although the SEC did not regulate rates and charges under the 1935 Act,
it did regulate the structure, financing, lines of business and internal
transactions of public utility holding companies and their system companies.

     The Energy Act repealed the 1935 Act effective February 8, 2006, and since
that date, we and our subsidiaries have no longer been subject to restrictions
imposed under the 1935 Act. The Energy Act includes PUHCA 2005, which grants to
the FERC authority to require holding companies and their subsidiaries to
maintain certain books and records and make them available for review by the
FERC and state regulatory authorities in certain circumstances. On December 8,
2005, the FERC issued rules implementing PUHCA 2005 that will require us to
notify the FERC of our status as a holding company and to maintain certain books
and records and make these available to the FERC. The FERC continues to consider
motions for rehearing or clarification of these rules.

                                        11


FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

     The FERC has jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas
Policy Act of 1978, as amended, to regulate the transportation of natural gas in
interstate commerce and natural gas sales for resale in intrastate commerce that
are not first sales. The FERC regulates, among other things, the construction of
pipeline and related facilities used in the transportation and storage of
natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, expansion or
abandonment of these facilities. The rates charged by interstate pipelines for
interstate transportation and storage services are also regulated by the FERC.
The Energy Act expanded the FERC's authority to prohibit market manipulation in
connection with FERC-regulated transactions and gave the FERC additional
authority to impose civil penalties for statutory violations and violations of
the FERC's rules or orders and also expanded criminal penalties for such
violations.

     Our natural gas pipeline subsidiaries may periodically file applications
with the FERC for changes in their generally available maximum rates and charges
designed to allow them to recover their costs of providing service to customers
(to the extent allowed by prevailing market conditions), including a reasonable
rate of return. These rates are normally allowed to become effective after a
suspension period and, in some cases, are subject to refund under applicable law
until such time as the FERC issues an order on the allowable level of rates.

     CenterPoint Houston is not a "public utility" under the Federal Power Act
and therefore is not generally regulated by the FERC, although certain of its
transactions are subject to limited FERC jurisdiction. The Energy Act provides
the FERC the authority to establish mandatory and enforceable service
reliability standards for the electric industry. CenterPoint Energy is subject
to these standards.

STATE AND LOCAL REGULATION

     Electric Transmission & Distribution.  CenterPoint Houston conducts its
operations pursuant to a certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the
Texas Utility Commission that covers its present service area and facilities. In
addition, CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from the
incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for payment of
fees, these franchises give CenterPoint Houston the right to use the streets and
public rights-of-way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain
its transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its
electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit.
The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from
5 to 50 years. As discussed above under "Our Business -- Electric Transmission &
Distribution -- Franchises," a new franchise ordinance for the City of Houston
franchise was granted in June 2005 with a term of 30 years. There are a total of
37 cities whose franchises will expire in 2007 and 2008. CenterPoint Houston
expects to be able to renew these expiring franchises.

     All retail electric providers in CenterPoint Houston's service area pay the
same rates and other charges for the same transmission and distribution
services.

     CenterPoint Houston's distribution rates charged to retail electric
providers for residential customers are based on amounts of energy delivered,
whereas distribution rates for a majority of commercial and industrial customers
are based on peak demand. Transmission rates charged to other distribution
companies are based on amounts of energy transmitted under "postage stamp" rates
that do not vary with the distance the energy is being transmitted. All
distribution companies in ERCOT pay CenterPoint Houston the same rates and other
charges for transmission services. The transmission and distribution rates for
CenterPoint Houston have been in effect since electric competition began. This
regulated delivery charge includes the transmission and distribution rate (which
includes municipal franchise fees), a system benefit fund fee imposed by the
Texas electric restructuring law, a nuclear decommissioning charge associated
with decommissioning the South Texas nuclear generating facility (South Texas
Project), transition charges associated with securitization of regulatory assets
and securitization of stranded costs, a competition transition charge for
collection of the true-up balance not securitized and a rate case expense
charge.

     As discussed above under "Electric Transmission & Distribution --
CenterPoint Houston Rate Case," in December 2005, the Texas Utility Commission
agreed to initiate a rate proceeding concerning the reasonable-

                                        12


ness of CenterPoint Houston's existing rates for transmission and distribution
service and to require CenterPoint Houston to make a filing by April 15, 2006 to
justify or change those rates.

     Natural Gas Distribution.  In almost all communities in which CERC provides
natural gas distribution services, it operates under franchises, certificates or
licenses obtained from state and local authorities. The original terms of the
franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 10 to 30 years,
though franchises in Arkansas are perpetual. None of CERC's material franchises
expire in the near term. CERC expects to be able to renew expiring franchises.
In most cases, franchises to provide natural gas utility services are not
exclusive.

     Substantially all of CERC's retail natural gas sales by its local
distribution divisions are subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation at
rates regulated by the relevant state public utility commissions and, in Texas,
by the Railroad Commission of Texas (Railroad Commission) and certain
municipalities CERC serves.

SOUTHERN GAS OPERATIONS

     In November 2004, Southern Gas Operations filed an application for a $34
million base rate increase, which was subsequently adjusted downward to $28
million, with the Arkansas Public Service Commission (APSC). In September 2005,
an $11 million rate reduction (which included a $10 million reduction relating
to depreciation rates) ordered by the APSC went into effect. The reduced
depreciation rates were implemented effective October 2005. This base rate
reduction and corresponding reduction in depreciation expense represent an
annualized operating income reduction of $1 million.

     In April 2005, the Railroad Commission established new gas tariffs that
increased Southern Gas Operations' base rate and service revenues by a combined
$2 million in the unincorporated environs of its Beaumont/East Texas and South
Texas Divisions. In June and August 2005, Southern Gas Operations filed requests
to implement these same rates within 169 incorporated cities located in the two
divisions. The proposed rates were approved or became effective by operation of
law in 164 of these cities. Five municipalities denied the rate change requests
within their respective jurisdictions. Southern Gas Operations has appealed the
actions of these five cities to the Railroad Commission. In February 2006,
Southern Gas Operations notified the Railroad Commission that it had reached a
settlement with four of the five cities. If approved, the settlement will affect
rates in a total of 60 cities in the South Texas Division. In addition, 19
cities where rates have already gone into effect have challenged the
jurisdictional and statutory basis for implementation of the new rates within
their respective jurisdictions. Southern Gas Operations has petitioned the
Railroad Commission for an order declaring that the new rates have been properly
established within these 19 cities. If the settlement is approved and assuming
all other rate change proposals become effective, revenues from Southern Gas
Operations' base rates and miscellaneous service charges would increase by an
additional $17 million annually. Currently, approximately $15 million of this
expected annual increase is in effect in the incorporated areas of Southern Gas
Operations' Beaumont/East Texas and South Texas Divisions.

     In October 2005, Southern Gas Operations filed requests with the Louisiana
Public Service Commission (LPSC) for approximately $2 million in base rate
increases for its South Louisiana service territory and approximately $2 million
in base rate reductions for its North Louisiana service territory in accordance
with the Rate Stabilization Plans in its tariffs. These base rate changes became
effective on January 2, 2006 in accordance with the tariffs and are subject to
review and possible adjustment by the staff of the LPSC. Southern Gas Operations
is unable to predict when the LPSC staff may conclude its review or what
adjustments, if any, the staff may recommend.

     In December 2005, Southern Gas Operations filed a request with the
Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC) for approximately $1 million in
miscellaneous service charges (e.g., charges to connect service, charges for
returned checks, etc.) in its Mississippi service territory. This request was
approved in the first quarter of 2006.

                                        13


     In addition, in January and February 2006, Southern Gas Operations filed
requests with the MPSC for approximately $3 million in base rate increases in
its Mississippi service territory in accordance with the Automatic Rate
Adjustment Mechanism provisions in its tariffs and an additional $2 million in
surcharges to recover system restoration expenses incurred following hurricane
Katrina. Both requests are being reviewed by the MPSC staff with a decision
expected in the first quarter of 2006.

MINNESOTA GAS

     In June 2005, the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) approved a
settlement which increased Minnesota Gas' base rates by approximately $9 million
annually. An interim rate increase of approximately $17 million had been
implemented in October 2004. Substantially all of the excess amounts collected
in interim rates over those approved in the final settlement were refunded to
customers in the third quarter of 2005.

     In November 2005, Minnesota Gas filed a request with the MPUC to increase
annual rates by approximately $41 million. In December 2005, the MPUC approved
an interim rate increase of approximately $35 million that was implemented
January 1, 2006. Any excess of amounts collected under the interim rates over
the amounts approved in final rates is subject to refund to customers. A
decision by the MPUC is expected in the third quarter of 2006.

     In December 2004, the MPUC opened an investigation to determine whether
Minnesota Gas' practices regarding restoring natural gas service during the
period between October 15 and April 15 (Cold Weather Period) are in compliance
with the MPUC's Cold Weather Rule (CWR), which governs disconnection and
reconnection of customers during the Cold Weather Period. The Minnesota Office
of the Attorney General (OAG) issued its report alleging Minnesota Gas has
violated the CWR and recommended a $5 million penalty. Minnesota Gas and the OAG
have reached an agreement on procedures to be followed for the current Cold
Weather Period which began on October 15, 2005. In addition, in June 2005, CERC
was named in a suit filed in the United States District Court, District of
Minnesota on behalf of a purported class of customers who allege that Minnesota
Gas' conduct under the CWR was in violation of the law. Minnesota Gas is in
settlement discussions regarding both the OAG's action and the action on behalf
of the purported class.

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

     In December 2002, Congress enacted the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of
2002 (the Act). This legislation applies to our interstate pipelines as well as
our intrastate pipelines and local distribution companies. The legislation
imposes several requirements related to ensuring pipeline safety and integrity.
It requires pipeline and distribution companies to assess the integrity of their
pipeline transmission facilities in areas of high population concentration or
High Consequence Areas (HCA). The legislation further requires companies to
perform remediation activities, in accordance with the requirements of the
legislation, over a 10-year period.

     Final regulations implementing the Act became effective on February 14,
2004 and provided guidance on, among other things, the areas that should be
classified as HCA.

     Our interstate and intrastate pipelines and our natural gas distribution
companies anticipate that compliance with these regulations will require
increases in both capital and operating cost. The level of expenditures required
to comply with these regulations will be dependent on several factors, including
the age of the facility, the pressures at which the facility operates and the
number of facilities deemed to be located in areas designated as HCA. Based on
our interpretation of the rules and preliminary technical reviews, we believe
compliance will require average annual expenditures of approximately $15 to $20
million during the initial 10-year period.

                             ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations
pertaining to health, safety and the environment. As an owner or operator of
natural gas pipelines, gas gathering and processing systems, and
                                        14


electric transmission and distribution systems we must comply with these laws
and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and
regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such
as:

     - restricting the way we can handle or dispose of our wastes;

     - limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive areas such
       as wetlands, coastal regions, or areas inhabited by endangered species;

     - requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions caused by our
       operations, or attributable to former operations; and

     - enjoining the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with
       permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations.

     In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend
substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to:

     - construct or acquire new equipment;

     - acquire permits for facility operations;

     - modify or replace existing and proposed equipment; and

     - clean up or decommission waste disposal areas, fuel storage and
       management facilities and other locations and facilities.

     Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of
administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the
assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial actions, and the
issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes
impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and
restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise
released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other
third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly
caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the
environment.

     The trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and
limitations on activities that may affect the environment, and thus there can be
no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental
compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from
the amounts we currently anticipate. We try to anticipate future regulatory
requirements that might be imposed and plan accordingly to remain in compliance
with changing environmental laws and regulations and to minimize the costs of
such compliance.

     Based on current regulatory requirements and interpretations, we do not
believe that compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws and
regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position or results of operations. In addition, we believe that the various
environmental remediation activities in which we are presently engaged will not
materially interrupt or diminish our operational ability. We cannot assure you,
however, that future events, such as changes in existing laws, the promulgation
of new laws, or the development or discovery of new facts or conditions will not
cause us to incur significant costs. The following is a discussion of all
material environmental and safety laws and regulations that relate to our
operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all of these
environmental laws and regulations.

AIR EMISSIONS

     Our operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and comparable
state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate emissions of air
pollutants from various industrial sources, including our processing plants and
compressor stations, and also impose various monitoring and reporting
requirements. Such laws and regulations may require that we obtain pre-approval
for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected
to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions,

                                        15


obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and
operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to
limit emissions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could subject us
to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations,
and potentially criminal enforcement actions. We may be required to incur
certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment
in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for
air emissions. We believe, however, that our operations will not be materially
adversely affected by such requirements, and the requirements are not expected
to be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated companies.

WATER DISCHARGES

     Our operations are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
1972, as amended, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws
and regulations. These laws and regulations impose detailed requirements and
strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States. The unpermitted discharge of pollutants, including discharges resulting
from a spill or leak incident, is prohibited. The Clean Water Act and
regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill
material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by
an appropriately issued permit. Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other
pollutants from our pipelines or facilities could result in fines or penalties
as well as significant remedial obligations.

HAZARDOUS WASTE

     Our operations generate wastes, including some hazardous wastes, that are
subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
comparable state laws, which impose detailed requirements for the handling,
storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous and solid waste. RCRA currently
exempts many natural gas gathering and field processing wastes from
classification as hazardous waste. Specifically, RCRA excludes from the
definition of hazardous waste waters produced and other wastes associated with
the exploration, development, or production of crude oil and natural gas.
However, these oil and gas exploration and production wastes are still regulated
under state law and the less stringent non-hazardous waste requirements of RCRA.
Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes such as paint wastes, waste solvents,
laboratory wastes, and waste compressor oils may be regulated as hazardous
waste. The transportation of natural gas in pipelines may also generate some
hazardous wastes that are subject to RCRA or comparable state law requirements.

LIABILITY FOR REMEDIATION

     The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, as amended (CERCLA), also known as "Superfund," and comparable state laws
impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original
conduct, on certain classes of persons responsible for the release of hazardous
substances into the environment. Such classes of persons include the current and
past owners or operators of sites where a hazardous substance was released, and
companies that disposed or arranged for disposal of hazardous substances at
offsite locations such as landfills. Although petroleum, as well as natural gas,
is excluded from CERCLA's definition of a "hazardous substance," in the course
of our ordinary operations we generate wastes that may fall within the
definition of a "hazardous substance." CERCLA authorizes the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and, in some cases, third parties to take
actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to
seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur.
Under CERCLA, we could be subject to joint and several liability for the costs
of cleaning up and restoring sites where hazardous substances have been
released, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health
studies.

LIABILITY FOR PREEXISTING CONDITIONS

     Hydrocarbon Contamination.  CERC Corp. and certain of its subsidiaries are
among the defendants in lawsuits filed beginning in August 2001 in Caddo Parish
and Bossier Parish, Louisiana. The suits allege that, at some unspecified date
prior to 1985, the defendants allowed or caused hydrocarbon or chemical
                                        16


contamination of the Wilcox Aquifer, which lies beneath property owned or leased
by certain of the defendants and which is the sole or primary drinking water
aquifer in the area. The primary source of the contamination is alleged by the
plaintiffs to be a gas processing facility in Haughton, Bossier Parish,
Louisiana known as the "Sligo Facility," which was formerly operated by a
predecessor in interest of CERC Corp. This facility was purportedly used for
gathering natural gas from surrounding wells, separating liquid hydrocarbons
from the natural gas for marketing, and transmission of natural gas for
distribution.

     Beginning about 1985, the predecessors of certain CERC Corp. defendants
engaged in a voluntary remediation of any subsurface contamination of the
groundwater below the property they owned or leased. This work has been done in
conjunction with and under the direction of the Louisiana Department of
Environmental Quality. In the pending litigation, the plaintiffs seek monetary
damages for alleged damage to the aquifer underlying their property, unspecified
alleged personal injuries, alleged fear of cancer, alleged property damage or
diminution of value of their property, and, in addition, seek damages for
trespass, punitive, and exemplary damages. We do not expect the ultimate cost
associated with resolving this matter to have a material impact on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows or that of CERC.

     Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.  CERC and its predecessors operated
manufactured gas plants (MGP) in the past. In Minnesota, CERC has completed
remediation on two sites, other than ongoing monitoring and water treatment.
There are five remaining sites in CERC's Minnesota service territory. CERC
believes that it has no liability with respect to two of these sites.

     At December 31, 2005, CERC had accrued $14 million for remediation of these
Minnesota sites. At December 31, 2005, the estimated range of possible
remediation costs for these sites was $4 million to $35 million based on
remediation continuing for 30 to 50 years. The cost estimates are based on
studies of a site or industry average costs for remediation of sites of similar
size. The actual remediation costs will be dependent upon the number of sites to
be remediated, the participation of other potentially responsible parties (PRP),
if any, and the remediation methods used. CERC has utilized an environmental
expense tracker mechanism in its rates in Minnesota to recover estimated costs
in excess of insurance recovery. As of December 31, 2005, CERC has collected $13
million from insurance companies and ratepayers to be used for future
environmental remediation.

     In addition to the Minnesota sites, the EPA and other regulators have
investigated MGP sites that were owned or operated by CERC or may have been
owned or operated by one of its former affiliates. CERC has been named as a
defendant in two lawsuits under which contribution is sought by private parties
for the cost to remediate former MGP sites based on the previous ownership of
such sites by former affiliates of CERC or its divisions. CERC has also been
identified as a PRP by the State of Maine for a site that is the subject of one
of the lawsuits. In March 2005, the court considering the other suit for
contribution granted CERC's motion to dismiss on the grounds that CERC was not
an "operator" of the site as had been alleged. The plaintiff in that case has
filed an appeal of the court's dismissal of CERC. We are investigating details
regarding these sites and the range of environmental expenditures for potential
remediation. However, CERC believes it is not liable as a former owner or
operator of those sites under CERCLA and applicable state statutes, and is
vigorously contesting those suits and its designation as a PRP.

     Mercury Contamination.  Our pipeline and natural gas distribution
operations have in the past employed elemental mercury in measuring and
regulating equipment. It is possible that small amounts of mercury may have been
spilled in the course of normal maintenance and replacement operations and that
these spills may have contaminated the immediate area with elemental mercury. We
have found this type of contamination at some sites in the past, and we have
conducted remediation at these sites. It is possible that other contaminated
sites may exist and that remediation costs may be incurred for these sites.
Although the total amount of these costs cannot be known at this time, based on
our experience and that of others in the natural gas industry to date and on the
current regulations regarding remediation of these sites, we believe that the
costs of any remediation of these sites will not be material to our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

     Other Environmental.  From time to time, we have received notices from
regulatory authorities or others regarding our status as a PRP in connection
with sites found to require remediation due to the presence of environmental
contaminants. Although their ultimate outcome cannot be predicted at this time,
we do not
                                        17


believe, based on our experience to date, that these matters, either
individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

     Asbestos.  Some of our facilities contain or have contained asbestos
insulation and other asbestos-containing materials. We or our subsidiaries have
been named, along with numerous others, as a defendant in lawsuits filed by a
large number of individuals who claim injury due to exposure to asbestos. Most
claimants in such litigation have been workers who participated in construction
of various industrial facilities, including power plants. Some of the claimants
have worked at locations we own, but most existing claims relate to facilities
previously owned by our subsidiaries but currently owned by Texas Genco LLC. We
anticipate that additional claims like those received may be asserted in the
future. Under the terms of the separation agreement between us and Texas Genco,
ultimate financial responsibility for uninsured losses from these claims
relating to facilities transferred to Texas Genco has been assumed by Texas
Genco, but under the terms of our agreement to sell Texas Genco to Texas Genco
LLC, we have agreed to continue to defend such claims to the extent they are
covered by insurance we maintain, subject to reimbursement of the costs of such
defense from Texas Genco LLC. Although their ultimate outcome cannot be
predicted at this time, we intend to continue vigorously contesting claims that
we do not consider to have merit and do not expect, based on our experience to
date, these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

REGULATORY MATTERS RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     Texas Genco and the other owners of the South Texas Project are required by
NRC regulations to estimate from time to time the amounts required to
decommission that nuclear generating facility and are required to maintain funds
to satisfy that obligation when the plant ultimately is decommissioned. Although
CenterPoint Houston no longer owns an interest in the South Texas Project,
CenterPoint Houston currently collects through a separate nuclear
decommissioning charge amounts calculated to provide sufficient funds at the
time of decommissioning to discharge these obligations. Funds collected are
deposited into nuclear decommissioning trusts. The beneficial ownership of the
nuclear decommissioning trusts is held by a subsidiary of Texas Genco LLC as a
licensee of the facility. While current funding levels exceed NRC minimum
requirements, no assurance can be given that the amounts held in trust will be
adequate to cover the actual decommissioning costs of the South Texas Project.
Such costs may vary because of changes in the assumed date of decommissioning
and changes in regulatory requirements, technology and costs of labor, materials
and waste burial. In the event that funds from the trust are inadequate to
decommission the facilities, CenterPoint Houston will be required by the
transaction agreement with Texas Genco LLC to collect through rates or other
authorized charges all additional amounts required to fund Texas Genco LLC's
obligations relating to the decommissioning of the South Texas Project.

                                   EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2005, we had 9,001 full-time employees. The following
table sets forth the number of our employees by business segment:



                                                                      NUMBER REPRESENTED
                                                                         BY UNIONS OR
                                                                       OTHER COLLECTIVE
BUSINESS SEGMENT                                             NUMBER   BARGAINING GROUPS
- ----------------                                             ------   ------------------
                                                                
Electric Transmission & Distribution.......................  2,931          1,225
Natural Gas Distribution...................................  4,387          1,493
Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services.................     98             --
Pipelines and Field Services...............................    717             --
Other Operations...........................................    868             --
                                                             -----          -----
  Total....................................................  9,001          2,718
                                                             =====          =====


                                        18


     As of December 31, 2005, approximately 30% of the Company's employees are
subject to collective bargaining agreements. Two of these agreements, covering
approximately 19% of the Company's employees will expire in 2006. Minnesota Gas
has 466 bargaining unit employees who are covered by a collective bargaining
unit agreement with the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of
Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada Local 340
that expires in April 2006. CenterPoint Houston has 1,225 bargaining unit
employees who are covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 66, that expires in May
2006. We have a good relationship with these bargaining units and expect to
renegotiate new agreements in 2006.

                               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                           (AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 2006)



NAME                                         AGE                         TITLE
- ----                                         ---                         -----
                                             
David M. McClanahan.......................   56    President and Chief Executive Officer and Director
Scott E. Rozzell..........................   56    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
                                                   Corporate Secretary
Gary L. Whitlock..........................   56    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
                                                   Officer
James S. Brian............................   58    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
Byron R. Kelley...........................   58    Senior Vice President and Group President --
                                                   CenterPoint Energy Pipelines and Field Services
Thomas R. Standish........................   56    Senior Vice President and Group
                                                   President -- Regulated Operations


     DAVID M. MCCLANAHAN has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a
director of CenterPoint Energy since September 2002. He served as Vice Chairman
of Reliant Energy, Incorporated (Reliant Energy) from October 2000 to September
2002 and as President and Chief Operating Office of Reliant Energy's Delivery
Group from April 1999 to September 2002. He has served in various executive
capacities with CenterPoint Energy since 1986. He previously served as Chairman
of the Board of Directors of ERCOT and Chairman of the Board of the University
of St. Thomas in Houston. He currently serves on the boards of the Edison
Electric Institute and the American Gas Association.

     SCOTT E. ROZZELL has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary of CenterPoint Energy since September 2002. He served as
Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Delivery Group of Reliant
Energy from March 2001 to September 2002. Before joining CenterPoint Energy in
2001, Mr. Rozzell was a senior partner in the law firm of Baker Botts L.L.P. He
currently serves as Chair of the Association of Electric Companies of Texas.

     GARY L. WHITLOCK has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of CenterPoint Energy since September 2002. He served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Delivery Group of Reliant Energy
from July 2001 to September 2002. Mr. Whitlock served as the Vice President,
Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Dow AgroSciences, a subsidiary of The Dow
Chemical Company, from 1998 to 2001.

     JAMES S. BRIAN has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer of CenterPoint Energy since August 2002. He served as Senior Vice
President, Finance and Administration of the Delivery Group of Reliant Energy
from 1999 to August 2002. Mr. Brian has served in various executive capacities
with CenterPoint Energy since 1983.

     BYRON R. KELLEY has served as Senior Vice President and Group
President -- CenterPoint Energy Pipelines and Field Services since June 2004,
having previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of CenterPoint
Energy Pipelines and Field Services from May 2003 to June 2004. Prior to joining
CenterPoint Energy he served as President of El Paso International, a subsidiary
of El Paso Corporation, from January 2001 to August 2002. He currently serves on
the Board of Directors of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America.

                                        19


     THOMAS R. STANDISH has served as Senior Vice President and Group
President-Regulated Operations of CenterPoint Energy since August 2005, having
previously served as Senior Vice President and Group President and Chief
Operating Officer of CenterPoint Houston from June 2004 to August 2005 and as
President and Chief Operating Officer of CenterPoint Houston from August 2002 to
June 2004. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer for both
electricity and natural gas for Reliant Energy's Houston area from 1999 to
August 2002. Mr. Standish has served in various executive capacities with
CenterPoint Energy since 1993. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of
ERCOT.

                                        20


ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

     We are a holding company that conducts all of our business operations
through subsidiaries, primarily CenterPoint Houston and CERC. The following
summarizes the principal risk factors associated with the businesses conducted
by each of these subsidiaries:

RISK FACTORS AFFECTING OUR ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS

  CENTERPOINT HOUSTON MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN ULTIMATELY RECOVERING THE FULL
  VALUE OF ITS TRUE-UP COMPONENTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN THE ELIMINATION OF
  CERTAIN TAX BENEFITS AND COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CASH FLOWS.

     In March 2004, CenterPoint Houston filed its true-up application with the
Texas Utility Commission, requesting recovery of $3.7 billion, excluding
interest. In December 2004, the Texas Utility Commission issued its final order
(True-Up Order) allowing CenterPoint Houston to recover a true-up balance of
approximately $2.3 billion, which included interest through August 31, 2004, and
providing for adjustment of the amount to be recovered to include interest on
the balance until recovery, the principal portion of additional excess
mitigation credits returned to customers after August 31, 2004 and certain other
matters. CenterPoint Houston and other parties filed appeals of the True-Up
Order to a district court in Travis County, Texas. In August 2005, the court
issued its final judgment on the various appeals. In its judgment, the court
affirmed most aspects of the True-Up Order, but reversed two of the Texas
Utility Commission's rulings. The judgment would have the effect of restoring
approximately $650 million, plus interest, of the $1.7 billion the Texas Utility
Commission had disallowed from CenterPoint Houston's initial request. First, the
court reversed the Texas Utility Commission's decision to prohibit CenterPoint
Houston from recovering $180 million in credits through August 2004 that
CenterPoint Houston was ordered to provide to retail electric providers as a
result of an inaccurate stranded cost estimate made by the Texas Utility
Commission in 2000. Additional credits of approximately $30 million were paid
after August 2004. Second, the court reversed the Texas Utility Commission's
disallowance of $440 million in transition costs which are recoverable under the
Texas Utility Commission's regulations. CenterPoint Houston and other parties
appealed the district court decisions. Briefs have been filed with the 3rd Court
of Appeals in Austin but oral argument has not yet been scheduled. No prediction
can be made as to the ultimate outcome or timing of such appeals. Additionally,
if the amount of the true-up balance is reduced on appeal to below the amount
recovered through the issuance of transition bonds and under the CTC, while the
amount of transition bonds outstanding would not be reduced, CenterPoint Houston
would be required to refund the over recovery to its customers.

     Among the issues raised in our appeal of the True-Up Order is the Texas
Utility Commission's reduction of our stranded cost recovery by approximately
$146 million for the present value of certain deferred tax benefits associated
with our former Texas Genco assets. Such reduction was considered in our
recording of an after-tax extraordinary loss of $977 million in the last half of
2004. We believe that the Texas Utility Commission based its order on proposed
regulations issued by the IRS in March 2003 related to those tax benefits. Those
proposed regulations would have allowed utilities which were deregulated before
March 4, 2003 to make a retroactive election to pass the benefits of ADITC and
EDFIT back to customers. However, in December 2005, the IRS withdrew those
proposed normalization regulations and issued new proposed regulations that do
not include the provision allowing a retroactive election to pass the tax
benefits back to customers. If the December 2005 proposed regulations become
effective and if the Texas Utility Commission's order on this issue is not
reversed on appeal or the amount of the tax benefits is not otherwise restored
by the Texas Utility Commission, the IRS is likely to consider that a
"normalization violation" has occurred. If so, the IRS could require us to pay
an amount equal to CenterPoint Houston's unamortized ADITC balance as of the
date that the normalization violation was deemed to have occurred. In addition,
if a normalization violation is deemed to have occurred, the IRS could also deny
CenterPoint Houston the ability to elect accelerated depreciation benefits. If a
normalization violation should ultimately be found to exist, it could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
The Texas Utility Commission has not previously required a company subject to
its jurisdiction to take action that would result in a normalization violation.

                                        21


  CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S RECEIVABLES ARE CONCENTRATED IN A SMALL NUMBER OF RETAIL
  ELECTRIC PROVIDERS, AND ANY DELAY OR DEFAULT IN PAYMENT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
  CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S CASH FLOWS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
  OPERATIONS.

     CenterPoint Houston's receivables from the distribution of electricity are
collected from retail electric providers that supply the electricity CenterPoint
Houston distributes to their customers. Currently, CenterPoint Houston does
business with 66 retail electric providers. Adverse economic conditions,
structural problems in the market served by the Electric Reliability Council of
Texas, Inc. (ERCOT) or financial difficulties of one or more retail electric
providers could impair the ability of these retail providers to pay for
CenterPoint Houston's services or could cause them to delay such payments.
CenterPoint Houston depends on these retail electric providers to remit payments
on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions require that customers be
shifted to a provider of last resort if a retail electric provider cannot make
timely payments. RRI, through its subsidiaries, is CenterPoint Houston's largest
customer. Approximately 56% of CenterPoint Houston's $127 million in billed
receivables from retail electric providers at December 31, 2005 was owed by
subsidiaries of RRI. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect
CenterPoint Houston's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

  RATE REGULATION OF CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S BUSINESS MAY DELAY OR DENY
  CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S ABILITY TO EARN A REASONABLE RETURN AND FULLY RECOVER
  ITS COSTS.

     CenterPoint Houston's rates are regulated by certain municipalities and the
Texas Utility Commission based on an analysis of its invested capital and its
expenses in a test year. Thus, the rates that CenterPoint Houston is allowed to
charge may not match its expenses at any given time. The regulatory process by
which rates are determined may not always result in rates that will produce full
recovery of CenterPoint Houston's costs and enable CenterPoint Houston to earn a
reasonable return on its invested capital.

  DISRUPTIONS AT POWER GENERATION FACILITIES OWNED BY THIRD PARTIES COULD
  INTERRUPT CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S SALES OF TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
  SERVICES.

     CenterPoint Houston transmits and distributes to customers of retail
electric providers electric power that the retail electric providers obtain from
power generation facilities owned by third parties. CenterPoint Houston does not
own or operate any power generation facilities. If power generation is disrupted
or if power generation capacity is inadequate, CenterPoint Houston's sales of
transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and its
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely
affected.

  CENTERPOINT HOUSTON'S REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE SEASONAL.

     A significant portion of CenterPoint Houston's revenues is derived from
rates that it collects from each retail electric provider based on the amount of
electricity it distributes on behalf of such retail electric provider. Thus,
CenterPoint Houston's revenues and results of operations are subject to
seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity usage, with
revenues being higher during the warmer months.

RISK FACTORS AFFECTING OUR NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITIVE NATURAL GAS
SALES AND SERVICES AND PIPELINES AND FIELD SERVICES BUSINESSES

  RATE REGULATION OF CERC'S BUSINESS MAY DELAY OR DENY CERC'S ABILITY TO EARN A
  REASONABLE RETURN AND FULLY RECOVER ITS COSTS.

     CERC's rates for its local distribution companies are regulated by certain
municipalities and state commissions, and for its interstate pipelines by the
FERC, based on an analysis of its invested capital and its expenses in a test
year. Thus, the rates that CERC is allowed to charge may not match its expenses
at any given time. The regulatory process in which rates are determined may not
always result in rates that will produce full recovery of CERC's costs and
enable CERC to earn a reasonable return on its invested capital.

                                        22


  CERC'S BUSINESSES MUST COMPETE WITH ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SOURCES, WHICH COULD
  LEAD TO LESS NATURAL GAS BEING MARKETED, AND ITS PIPELINES AND FIELD SERVICES
  BUSINESSES MUST COMPETE DIRECTLY WITH OTHERS IN THE TRANSPORTATION, STORAGE,
  GATHERING, TREATING AND PROCESSING OF NATURAL GAS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO LOWER
  PRICES, EITHER OF WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON CERC'S RESULTS OF
  OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CASH FLOWS.

     CERC competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity
and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other natural gas
distributors and marketers also compete directly with CERC for natural gas sales
to end-users. In addition, as a result of federal regulatory changes affecting
interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be
able to bypass CERC's facilities and market, sell and/or transport natural gas
directly to commercial and industrial customers. Any reduction in the amount of
natural gas marketed, sold or transported by CERC as a result of competition may
have an adverse impact on CERC's results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.

     CERC's two interstate pipelines and its gathering systems compete with
other interstate and intrastate pipelines and gathering systems in the
transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition
are rates, terms of service, and flexibility and reliability of service. They
also compete indirectly with other forms of energy, including electricity, coal
and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. The actions of CERC's
competitors could lead to lower prices, which may have an adverse impact on
CERC's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

  CERC'S NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION AND COMPETITIVE NATURAL GAS SALES AND SERVICES
  BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN NATURAL GAS PRICING LEVELS, WHICH
  COULD AFFECT THE ABILITY OF CERC'S SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS TO MEET THEIR
  OBLIGATIONS OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT CERC'S LIQUIDITY.

     CERC is subject to risk associated with increases in the price of natural
gas, which has been the trend in recent years. Increases in natural gas prices
might affect CERC's ability to collect balances due from its customers and, on
the regulated side, could create the potential for uncollectible accounts
expense to exceed the recoverable levels built into CERC's tariff rates. In
addition, a sustained period of high natural gas prices could apply downward
demand pressure on natural gas consumption in the areas in which CERC operates
and increase the risk that CERC's suppliers or customers fail or are unable to
meet their obligations. Additionally, increasing gas prices could create the
need for CERC to provide collateral in order to purchase gas.

  IF CERC WERE TO FAIL TO EXTEND A CONTRACT WITH ONE OF ITS SIGNIFICANT PIPELINE
  CUSTOMERS, THERE COULD BE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON ITS OPERATIONS.

     CERC's contract with Laclede Gas Company, one of its pipeline's customers,
is currently scheduled to expire in 2007. To the extent the pipeline is unable
to extend this contract or the contract is renegotiated at rates substantially
less than the rates provided in the current contract, there could be an adverse
effect on CERC's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

  A DECLINE IN CERC'S CREDIT RATING COULD RESULT IN CERC'S HAVING TO PROVIDE
  COLLATERAL IN ORDER TO PURCHASE GAS.

     If CERC's credit rating were to decline, it might be required to post cash
collateral in order to purchase natural gas. If a credit rating downgrade and
the resultant cash collateral requirement were to occur at a time when CERC was
experiencing significant working capital requirements or otherwise lacked
liquidity, CERC might be unable to obtain the necessary natural gas to meet its
obligations to customers, and its results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows would be adversely affected.

  CERC'S PIPELINES' AND FIELD SERVICES' BUSINESS REVENUES AND RESULTS OF
  OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE SUPPLY OF GAS.

     CERC's pipelines and field services business largely relies on gas sourced
in the various supply basins located in the Midcontinent region of the United
States. To the extent the availability of this supply is

                                        23


substantially reduced, it could have an adverse effect on CERC's results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.

  CERC'S REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE SEASONAL.

     A substantial portion of CERC's revenues is derived from natural gas sales
and transportation. Thus, CERC's revenues and results of operations are subject
to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in natural gas usage, with
revenues being higher during the winter months.

RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION

  IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ARRANGE FUTURE FINANCINGS ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, OUR ABILITY
  TO REFINANCE EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS COULD BE LIMITED.

     As of December 31, 2005, we had $8.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness on
a consolidated basis, which includes $2.5 billion of non-recourse transition
bonds. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $665 million principal amount of
this debt must be paid through 2008. This amount excludes principal repayments
of approximately $379 million on transition bonds, for which a dedicated revenue
stream exists. In addition, we have $830 million of outstanding convertible
notes on which holders could exercise their "put" rights during this period. Our
future financing activities may depend, at least in part, on:

     - the timing and amount of our recovery of the true-up components,
       including, in particular, the results of appeals to the courts of
       determinations on rulings obtained to date;

     - general economic and capital market conditions;

     - credit availability from financial institutions and other lenders;

     - investor confidence in us and the market in which we operate;

     - maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;

     - market expectations regarding our future earnings and probable cash
       flows;

     - market perceptions of our ability to access capital markets on reasonable
       terms;

     - our exposure to RRI in connection with its indemnification obligations
       arising in connection with its separation from us; and

     - provisions of relevant tax and securities laws.

     As of December 31, 2005, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding $2.0 billion
aggregate principal amount of general mortgage bonds under the General Mortgage,
including approximately $527 million held in trust to secure pollution control
bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated and approximately $229 million
held in trust to secure pollution control bonds for which CenterPoint Houston is
obligated. Additionally, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding approximately $253
million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds under the Mortgage,
including approximately $151 million held in trust to secure certain pollution
control bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated. CenterPoint Houston may
issue additional general mortgage bonds on the basis of retired bonds, 70% of
property additions or cash deposited with the trustee. Approximately $2.0
billion of additional first mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds could be
issued on the basis of retired bonds and 70% of property additions as of
December 31, 2005. However, CenterPoint Houston is contractually prohibited,
subject to certain exceptions, from issuing additional first mortgage bonds.

     Our current credit ratings are discussed in "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources -- Future Sources and Uses of Cash -- Impact on Liquidity of a
Downgrade in Credit Ratings" in Item 7 of this report. These credit ratings may
not remain in effect for any given period of time and one or more of these
ratings may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. We note that
these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our
securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Any future reduction
                                        24


or withdrawal of one or more of our credit ratings could have a material adverse
impact on our ability to access capital on acceptable terms.

  AS A HOLDING COMPANY WITH NO OPERATIONS OF OUR OWN, WE WILL DEPEND ON
  DISTRIBUTIONS FROM OUR SUBSIDIARIES TO MEET OUR PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS, AND
  PROVISIONS OF APPLICABLE LAW OR CONTRACTUAL RESTRICTIONS COULD LIMIT THE
  AMOUNT OF THOSE DISTRIBUTIONS.

     We derive all our operating income from, and hold all our assets through,
our subsidiaries. As a result, we will depend on distributions from our
subsidiaries in order to meet our payment obligations. In general, these
subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to
provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends,
distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law,
such as those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit their ability to
make payments or other distributions to us, and they could agree to contractual
restrictions on their ability to make distributions.

     Our right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right
of our creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively
subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade
creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any subsidiary, our rights
as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of
that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by
us.

  THE USE OF DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS BY US AND OUR SUBSIDIARIES IN THE NORMAL
  COURSE OF BUSINESS COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL LOSSES THAT NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND THOSE OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES.

     We and our subsidiaries use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options,
futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We and
our subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in
the market values of these contracts, or should a counterparty fail to perform.
In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from
external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve
management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the
underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the
reported fair value of these contracts.

RISKS COMMON TO OUR BUSINESSES AND OTHER RISKS

  WE ARE SUBJECT TO OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS AND LIABILITIES ARISING FROM
  ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.

     Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations
pertaining to health, safety and the environment. As an owner or operator of
natural gas pipelines and distribution systems, gas gathering and processing
systems, and electric transmission and distribution systems we must comply with
these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws
and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways,
such as:

     - restricting the way we can handle or dispose of our wastes;

     - limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive areas such
       as wetlands, coastal regions, or areas inhabited by endangered species;

     - requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions caused by our
       operations, or attributable to former operations; and

     - enjoining the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with
       permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations.

     In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend
substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to:

     - construct or acquire new equipment;

     - acquire permits for facility operations;
                                        25


     - modify or replace existing and proposed equipment; and

     - clean up or decommission waste disposal areas, fuel storage and
       management facilities and other locations and facilities.

     Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of
administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the
assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial actions, and the
issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes
impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and
restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise
released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other
third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly
caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the
environment.

  OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT. INSUFFICIENT INSURANCE COVERAGE
  AND INCREASED INSURANCE COSTS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF
  OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CASH FLOWS.

     We currently have general liability and property insurance in place to
cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such
policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include
business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the
future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance
proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may
not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on our
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

     In common with other companies in its line of business that serve coastal
regions, CenterPoint Houston does not have insurance covering its transmission
and distribution system because CenterPoint Houston believes it to be cost
prohibitive. If CenterPoint Houston were to sustain any loss of, or damage to,
its transmission and distribution properties, it may not be able to recover such
loss or damage through a change in its regulated rates, and any such recovery
may not be timely granted. Therefore, CenterPoint Houston may not be able to
restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution
properties without negative impact on its results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows.

  WE, CENTERPOINT HOUSTON AND CERC COULD INCUR LIABILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH
  BUSINESSES AND ASSETS THAT WE HAVE TRANSFERRED TO OTHERS.

     Under some circumstances, we and CenterPoint Houston could incur
liabilities associated with assets and businesses we and CenterPoint Houston no
longer own. These assets and businesses were previously owned by Reliant Energy,
a predecessor of CenterPoint Houston, directly or through subsidiaries and
include:

     - those transferred to RRI or its subsidiaries in connection with the
       organization and capitalization of RRI prior to its initial public
       offering in 2001; and

     - those transferred to Texas Genco in connection with its organization and
       capitalization.

     In connection with the organization and capitalization of RRI, RRI and its
subsidiaries assumed liabilities associated with various assets and businesses
Reliant Energy transferred to them. RRI also agreed to indemnify, and cause the
applicable transferee subsidiaries to indemnify, us and our subsidiaries,
including CenterPoint Houston and CERC, with respect to liabilities associated
with the transferred assets and businesses. The indemnity provisions were
intended to place sole financial responsibility on RRI and its subsidiaries for
all liabilities associated with the current and historical businesses and
operations of RRI, regardless of the time those liabilities arose. If RRI is
unable to satisfy a liability that has been so assumed in circumstances in which
Reliant Energy has not been released from the liability in connection with the
transfer, we, CenterPoint Houston or CERC could be responsible for satisfying
the liability.

     Prior to CenterPoint Energy's distribution of its ownership in RRI to its
shareholders, CERC had guaranteed certain contractual obligations of what became
RRI's trading subsidiary. Under the terms of the separation agreement between
the companies, RRI agreed to extinguish all such guarantee obligations prior to
separation, but when separation occurred in September 2002, RRI had been unable
to extinguish all

                                        26


obligations. To secure CenterPoint Energy and CERC against obligations under the
remaining guarantees, RRI agreed to provide cash or letters of credit for the
benefit of CERC and CenterPoint Energy, and undertook to use commercially
reasonable efforts to extinguish the remaining guarantees. Our current exposure
under the remaining guarantees relates to CERC's guarantee of the payment by RRI
of demand charges related to transportation contracts with one counterparty. The
demand charges are approximately $53 million per year in 2006 through 2015, $49
million in 2016, $38 million in 2017 and $13 million in 2018. As a result of
changes in market conditions, CenterPoint Energy's potential exposure under that
guarantee currently exceeds the security provided by RRI. CenterPoint Energy has
requested RRI to increase the amount of its existing letters of credit or, in
the alternative, to obtain a release of CERC's obligations under the guarantee,
and CenterPoint Energy and RRI are pursuing alternatives. RRI continues to meet
its obligations under the transportation contracts.

     RRI's unsecured debt ratings are currently below investment grade. If RRI
were unable to meet its obligations, it would need to consider, among various
options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event RRI might not
honor its indemnification obligations and claims by RRI's creditors might be
made against us as its former owner.

     Reliant Energy and RRI are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits
arising out of power sales in California and other West Coast markets and
financial reporting matters. Although these matters relate to the business and
operations of RRI, claims against Reliant Energy have been made on grounds that
include the effect of RRI's financial results on Reliant Energy's historical
financial statements and liability of Reliant Energy as a controlling
shareholder of RRI. We or CenterPoint Houston could incur liability if claims in
one or more of these lawsuits were successfully asserted against us or
CenterPoint Houston and indemnification from RRI were determined to be
unavailable or if RRI were unable to satisfy indemnification obligations owed
with respect to those claims.

     In connection with the organization and capitalization of Texas Genco,
Texas Genco assumed liabilities associated with the electric generation assets
Reliant Energy transferred to it. Texas Genco also agreed to indemnify, and
cause the applicable transferee subsidiaries to indemnify, us and our
subsidiaries, including CenterPoint Houston, with respect to liabilities
associated with the transferred assets and businesses. In many cases the
liabilities assumed were obligations of CenterPoint Houston and CenterPoint
Houston was not released by third parties from these liabilities. The indemnity
provisions were intended generally to place sole financial responsibility on
Texas Genco and its subsidiaries for all liabilities associated with the current
and historical businesses and operations of Texas Genco, regardless of the time
those liabilities arose. In connection with the sale of Texas Genco's fossil
generation assets (coal, lignite and gas-fired plants) to Texas Genco LLC, the
separation agreement we entered into with Texas Genco in connection with the
organization and capitalization of Texas Genco was amended to provide that all
of Texas Genco's rights and obligations under the separation agreement relating
to its fossil generation assets, including Texas Genco's obligation to indemnify
us with respect to liabilities associated with the fossil generation assets and
related business, were assigned to and assumed by Texas Genco LLC. In addition,
under the amended separation agreement, Texas Genco is no longer liable for, and
CenterPoint Energy has assumed and agreed to indemnify Texas Genco LLC against,
liabilities that Texas Genco originally assumed in connection with its
organization to the extent, and only to the extent, that such liabilities are
covered by certain insurance policies or other similar agreements held by
CenterPoint Energy. If Texas Genco or Texas Genco LLC were unable to satisfy a
liability that had been so assumed or indemnified against, and provided Reliant
Energy had not been released from the liability in connection with the transfer,
CenterPoint Houston could be responsible for satisfying the liability.

     We or our subsidiaries have been named, along with numerous others, as a
defendant in lawsuits filed by a large number of individuals who claim injury
due to exposure to asbestos. Most claimants in such litigation have been workers
who participated in construction of various industrial facilities, including
power plants. Some of the claimants have worked at locations we own, but most
existing claims relate to facilities previously owned by our subsidiaries but
currently owned by Texas Genco LLC. We anticipate that additional claims like
those received may be asserted in the future. Under the terms of the separation
agreement between us and Texas Genco, ultimate financial responsibility for
uninsured losses from claims relating to facilities transferred
                                        27


to Texas Genco has been assumed by Texas Genco, but under the terms of our
agreement to sell Texas Genco to Texas Genco LLC, we have agreed to continue to
defend such claims to the extent they are covered by insurance we maintain,
subject to reimbursement of the costs of such defense from Texas Genco LLC.

ITEM 1B