Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        14
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    El
Abra
    
     
    We own a
51 percent interest in El Abra. The remaining 49 percent interest is held by the
state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile
(CODELCO).
    
    El Abra
is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and
is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The
site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. The El Abra mine is a porphyry
copper deposit that has oxide and sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide
copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of
copper-bearing clays and tenorite. The predominant primary sulfide copper
minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary
sulfide mineralization as chalcocite.
    
    The El
Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and an SX/EW facility with a
capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 120,000 metric
ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized, ROM leaching operation.
Copper production for 2009 was 358 million pounds. The mining operation has
sufficient equipment to move an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per
day using an available fleet of 26 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four
shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters.
    
    We have
resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large
sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years.
Production from the sulfide ore, which will be ramping up to approximately 300
million pounds of copper per year is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace
the current oxide copper production that is expected to decline over the next
several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to
process the additional sulfide ore. Total capital for the project is estimated
to approximate $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is
for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in
2012.
    
    El Abra
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch
per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180
meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,410
meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of 110,268 acres of mining
claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield
and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has acquired land surface rights for the road
between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power
transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de
Ascotán.
    
    El Abra
currently receives electrical power under a contract with Electroandina, which
will expire at the end of 2017. Water for our El Abra processing operations
comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán pursuant to
regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights to support
current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability
of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        15
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Candelaria
and Ojos del Salado
    
     
    Candelaria.  We
have an 80 percent ownership interest in Candelaria. The remaining 20 percent
interest is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.
    
    Candelaria’s
open-pit mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been
in operation since 2005. The Candelaria copper mining complex is located
approximately 12 miles south of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province,
Region III. The site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming
through the Tierra Amarilla community and the other off of Route 5 of the
International Pan-American Highway. The
Candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper/gold deposit. Primary sulfide
mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.
    
    The
Candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric
ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding
a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator. On average, open-pit mining operations
move 235,000 metric tons of material per day using an available fleet of 38
225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from
13 to 43 cubic meters. Copper concentrates are transported by truck to the Punta
Padrones port facility located in Caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of
the mine. Copper production for 2009 was 296 million pounds and gold production
was 74,000 ounces.
    
    Candelaria
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch
per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 675
meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 30 meters
below sea level. The Candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,390 acres,
including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in Caldera. The
remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface
is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.
Candelaria
receives electrical power through long-term contracts with Empresa Eléctrica
Guacolda S.A., a local energy company. Candelaria’s water supply comes from well
fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the
Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent
years, ongoing studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for
Candelaria’s currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated
with the availability of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    Ojos del
Salado.  We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Ojos del
Salado. The remaining 20 percent interest
is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.
    
    The Ojos
del Salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two
underground copper mines (Santos and Alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day
concentrator. The operation is located approximately 10 miles east of Copiapó in
northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III, and is accessible by paved
highway. The Ojos del Salado mines are iron oxide and copper/gold deposits.
Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.
    
    The Ojos
del Salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the
Santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the
Alcaparrosa underground mine. The ore from both mines is mined by sublevel
stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. The broken ore is
removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of 18
28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. The ore from the
Santos mine is hauled directly to the Ojos del Salado mill for processing, and
the 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        16
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    ore from
the Alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into five 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven
miles to the Candelaria mill for processing. The Ojos del Salado concentrator
has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9,000 ounces of
gold per year. Copper production for 2009 was 74 million pounds and gold
production was 18,000 ounces. Tailings from the Ojos del Salado mill are pumped
to the Candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. The Candelaria
facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining Ojos del Salado tailings in
addition to Candelaria’s tailings.
    
    Ojos del
Salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one
inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest underground level is
at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level
at 150 meters above sea level. The Ojos del Salado mineral rights encompass
approximately 15,815 acres, which includes approximately 6,784 acres of owned
land in and around the Ojos del Salado underground mines and plant site. The
remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface
is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean
law.
    
    Ojos del
Salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with Empresa
Eléctrica Guacolda S.A. Ojos del Salado’s water supply comes from well fields in
the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River
aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing
studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for Ojos del Salado’s
currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the
availability of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    Indonesia
    
    Ownership
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of
the Republic of Indonesia and incorporated in Delaware. We directly own 81.28
percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, 9.36 percent indirectly through our wholly
owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama, and the Government of Indonesia owns
the remaining 9.36 percent. In July 2004, we received a request from the
Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources that we offer to sell
shares in PT Indocopper Investama to Indonesian nationals at fair market value.
Refer to Note 15 for additional discussion.
    
    In 1996,
we established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio
Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England.
Pursuant to the joint venture agreements, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in
certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of
copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A, and, after 2021, a 40 percent
interest in all production from Block A.  Refer to Note 3 for further
discussion of the joint venture with Rio Tinto.
    
    Contracts
of Work
    
    Through a
Contract of Work (COW) with the Government of Indonesia, PT Freeport Indonesia
conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia. The COW
governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls,
royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the
1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign
investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and
protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and
basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors.
Specifically, the COW provides that the Government of Indonesia will not
nationalize or expropriate PT Freeport Indonesia’s mining operations. Any
disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international
arbitration. We have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the 41
years we have operated in Indonesia.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia’s COW covers both Block A, which was first included in a 1967
COW that was replaced by a new COW in 1991, and Block B in which we gained
rights in 1991. The initial term of our COW expires in December 2021, but we can
extend it for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval that
cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct
exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area,
located in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesia’s proven and probable mineral
reserves and current mining operations are located in Block A. Under the COW, PT
Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities (which had been
suspended in 2009, but will resume in 2010) in the approximate 500,000-acre
Block B area, in Papua. We originally had the rights to explore 6.5 million
acres in Block B, but pursuant to the COW we have only retained the rights to
approximately 500,000 acres following 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        17
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    significant
geological assessment.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia pays a copper royalty under its COW that varies from 1.5
percent of copper net revenue at a copper price of $0.90 or less per pound to
3.5 percent at a copper price of $1.10 or more per pound. The COW royalty rate
for gold and silver sales is 1.0 percent.
    
    A large
part of the mineral royalties under Government of Indonesia regulations are
designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. In connection
with our fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, PT Freeport
Indonesia agreed to pay the Government of Indonesia additional royalties
(royalties not required by our COW) to provide further support to the local
governments and the people of the Indonesia province of Papua. The additional
royalties are paid on production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper,
gold and silver expected to be generated when PT Freeport Indonesia’s milling
facilities operate above 200,000 metric tons of ore per day. The additional
royalty for copper equals the COW royalty rate and for gold and silver equals
twice the COW royalty rates. Therefore, PT Freeport Indonesia’s royalty rate on
copper net revenues from production above the agreed levels is double the COW
royalty rate, and royalty rates on gold and silver sales from production above
the agreed levels are triple the COW royalty rates. PT Freeport Indonesia’s
share of the combined royalties, including the additional royalties which became
effective January 1, 1999, totaled $147 million in 2009, $113 million in 2008
and $133 million in 2007.
    
    PT Irja
Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent, conducts
exploration through a joint venture agreement, under a separate COW in an area
covering approximately 450,000 acres in Papua. The Eastern Minerals COW was
under suspension during 2009.
    
    Under a
joint venture agreement through PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM), we conduct
exploration activities under a separate COW in an area covering approximately
500,000 acres in five parcels contiguous to PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B and
one of Eastern Minerals’ blocks. The PTNBM COW was under suspension for much of
2009, but will resume in 2010.
    
    In 2008,
Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system
as opposed to the COW system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia, Eastern
Minerals and PTNBM. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations
under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing COWs.
The regulations provide that COWs will continue to be honored until
their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain
provisions of the new law to any extension periods of COWs even though our COWs
provide for two ten-year extension periods under the existing terms of our COWs.

     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        18
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
Grasberg Minerals District
    
    
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain
Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the
island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have conducted exploration and
mining operations in Block A since 1967 and have been the only operator of these
operations. We currently have two mines in operation: the Grasberg open pit and
the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground block cave. We also have significant
development projects in the Grasberg minerals district, which are discussed in
more detail in “Development Projects and Exploration” below and in Item
7.  “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations.”
    
    Grasberg Open Pit.
 We began open-pit
mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Open-pit operations are expected to
continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are
scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is currently in
development. Production is currently at the 3,295- to 4,285-meter elevation
level and totaled 57 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 49 million metric
tons of ore in 2008, which provided 70 percent of our 2009 mill feed and 67
percent of our 2008 mill feed. Remaining mill feed comes from our DOZ
mine.
    
    The
current Grasberg equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining
equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 163
haul trucks with payloads ranging from approximately 215 metric tons to 330
metric tons and 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 cubic meters to 42
cubic meters, which in 2009 moved an average of 725,000 metric tons per
day.
    
    Grasberg
crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity
to transport up to 225,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and
135,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The
remaining ore and overburden is moved by haul trucks.
    
    Deep Ore Zone. The DOZ ore body lies
vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production
from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but we suspended
production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg deposit. Production
resumed in September 2000 using the block-cave method. Production is at the
3,110-meter elevation level and totaled 26 million metric tons of ore in 2009
and 23 million metric tons in 2008. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to
continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level
Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in
2015.
    
    During
2009, we completed over 11,000 meters of development drifting in support of the
block-cave mining method for the DOZ mine. Further expansion of the DOZ
operation to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The
success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the world’s largest
underground 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        19
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    mines,
provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesia’s
large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies.
    
    The DOZ
mine fleet consists of over 185 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which in 2009
moved an average of 72,000 metric tons of ore per day. The primary mining
equipment directly associated with production and development includes an
available fleet of 49 load haul dump (LHD) units and 23 haul trucks. Our
production LHD units typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using
ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55-ton capacity haul
trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed
to the surface stockpiles.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia’s total production for 2009 was 1.4 billion pounds of copper
and 2.6 million ounces of gold.
    
    Our
principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal-fired
power plant that we built in conjunction with our fourth concentrator mill
expansion. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power
generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and
water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations.
Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average
annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches.
    
    Description of Ore
Bodies. Our
Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions,
the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore
bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and
upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to
dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous-hosted ore bodies (the
Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as
vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite
and, to a much lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies
occur as “magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn” replacements, whose location
and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of
the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions.
    
    The
copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is also dominated by chalcopyrite,
but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in
significant concentrations in all of the district’s ore bodies, though rarely
visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions
within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these
concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite.
    
    The
following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported
ore bodies.
    
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          20
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The
following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers
(approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of
our reported ore bodies and their locations.
    
    
    Africa
    At Tenke
Fungurume, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining
concessions under general mining laws and our mining rights remain in force as
long as the concessions are exploitable. The concessions are owned or controlled
by operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership
interest.
    
    Tenke
Fungurume
    
    
    We own an
effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. The
remaining ownership interests are held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an
effective 24.75 percent interest) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines
(Gécamines), which is wholly owned by the Government of the DRC (17.5 percent
non-dilutable interest).
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        21
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    In 2009,
we completed the approximate $2 billion initial project at the Tenke Fungurume
minerals district. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin, we were responsible
for funding our share (70 percent) of the project development costs and 100
percent of certain cost overruns on the initial project. We and Lundin will be
repaid our advances prior to distributions to the stockholders of Tenke
Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow
until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Additionally, in
accordance with the terms of the agreement, Gécamines will receive asset
transfer payments totaling $100 million, $80 million of which have already been
paid and the remainder of which will be paid over the next two
years.
    
    The Tenke
Fungurume deposits are located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately
110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi. The deposits are accessible by unpaved roads
and by rail. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt
deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The
dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite.
Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and
chalcopyrite.
    
    Copper
and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant capable of processing
8,000 metric tons of ore per day. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and
achieved targeted production rates in September 2009. The cobalt and sulphuric
acid plants were commissioned in September 2009 and we continue to address
start-up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and expect to reach sustained
targeted production rates during 2010. Current operations are designed to
produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of
cobalt per year. The current equipment fleet includes 10 five-cubic meter
front-end loaders, 29 45-metric ton haul trucks, surface miners, production
drills, sampling machines and crawler dozers.
    
    We
commenced a feasibility study in fourth-quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase
of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially
increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is
expected to be completed by mid-year 2010. The timing of these expansions will
depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market
conditions.
    
    Tenke
Fungurume is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated
by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season
and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47
inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,480 meters
above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,270 meters above
sea level. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located within four concessions
totaling 394,455 acres.
    
    Tenke
Fungurume has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding
agreements with La Société Nationale d’Electricité (SNEL), the state-owned
electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water
exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological
conditions, indicate that adequate water is available for the project, and for
hydro-electric generation during the expected life of the
operation.
    
    In
February 2008, the Ministry of Mines, Government of the DRC, sent a letter
seeking comment on proposed material modifications to the mining contracts for
the Tenke Fungurume concession. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the
DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the
timing or outcome of the process. The contract review process has not affected
our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms
of our contract. We believe the contract is fair and equitable, complies with
Congolese law and is enforceable without modification.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          22
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    PRODUCTION
DATA
    
    For
comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition operating data represent the
results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is
not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
management or of future operating results.
    
    
      

            
              COPPER
            
             
      
            
              Years
      Ended December 31,
            
             
      
          
            
              (millions
      of recoverable pounds)
            
             
      
            
              2009
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2008
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2007a
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2006a
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2005a
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MINED COPPER (FCX’s net
      interest in %)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
      (85%)b
            
             
      
            
              428
            
             
      
             
      
            
              626
            
             
      
             
      
            
              687
            
             
      
             
      
            
              693
            
             
      
             
      
            
              680
            
             
      
          
            
              Bagdad
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              225
            
             
      
             
      
            
              227
            
             
      
             
      
            
              202
            
             
      
             
      
            
              165
            
             
      
             
      
            
              201
            
             
      
          
            
              Safford
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              184
            
             
      
             
      
            
              133
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Sierrita
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              170
            
             
      
             
      
            
              188
            
             
      
             
      
            
              150
            
             
      
             
      
            
              162
            
             
      
             
      
            
              158
            
             
      
          
            
              Tyrone
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
             
      
            
              76
            
             
      
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
             
      
            
              64
            
             
      
             
      
            
              81
            
             
      
          
            
              Chino
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              36
            
             
      
             
      
            
              155
            
             
      
             
      
            
              190
            
             
      
             
      
            
              186
            
             
      
             
      
            
              210
            
             
      
          
            
              Miami
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              16
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              20
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              25
            
             
      
          
            
              Other
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              2
            
             
      
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
             
      
            
              20
            
             
      
             
      
            
              16
            
             
      
             
      
            
              10
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      North America
            
             
      
            
              1,147
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,430
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,320
            
            
              c
            
             
      
            
              1,305
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,365
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde (53.56%)
            
             
      
            
              662
            
             
      
             
      
            
              694
            
             
      
             
      
            
              594
            
             
      
             
      
            
              222
            
             
      
             
      
            
              206
            
             
      
          
            
              Candelaria/Ojos
      del Salado (80%)
            
             
      
            
              370
            
             
      
             
      
            
              446
            
             
      
             
      
            
              453
            
             
      
             
      
            
              429
            
             
      
             
      
            
              421
            
             
      
          
            
              El
      Abra (51%)
            
             
      
            
              358
            
             
      
             
      
            
              366
            
             
      
             
      
            
              366
            
             
      
             
      
            
              482
            
             
      
             
      
            
              464
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      South America
            
             
      
            
              1,390
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,506
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,413
            
            
              c
            
             
      
            
              1,133
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,091
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      (90.64%)d
            
             
      
            
              1,412
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,094
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,151
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,201
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,456
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
                  Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
                      Tenke
      Fungurume (57.75%)
            
             
      
            
              154
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
            
             
      
            
              4,103
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,030
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,884
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,639
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,912
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              754
            
             
      
             
      
            
              693
            
             
      
             
      
            
              653
            
             
      
             
      
            
              537
            
             
      
             
      
            
              543
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              3,349
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,337
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,231
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,102
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,369
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              GOLD
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              (thousands
      of recoverable ounces)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MINED GOLD (FCX’s net
      interest in %)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              North
      America (100%)b
            
             
      
            
              4
            
             
      
             
      
            
              14
            
             
      
             
      
            
              15
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              17
            
             
      
          
            
              South
      America (80%)
            
             
      
            
              92
            
             
      
             
      
            
              114
            
             
      
             
      
            
              116
            
            
              e
            
             
      
            
              112
            
             
      
             
      
            
              117
            
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
      (90.64%)d
            
             
      
            
              2,568
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,163
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,198
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,732
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,789
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
            
             
      
            
              2,664
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,291
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,329
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,863
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,923
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              258
            
             
      
             
      
            
              132
            
             
      
             
      
            
              229
            
             
      
             
      
            
              184
            
             
      
             
      
            
              284
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              2,406
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,159
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,100
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,679
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,639
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MOLYBDENUM
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              (millions
      of recoverable pounds)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MINED MOLYBDENUM (FCX’s
      net interest in %)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Henderson
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              27
            
             
      
             
      
            
              40
            
             
      
             
      
            
              39
            
            
              f
            
             
      
            
              37
            
             
      
             
      
            
              32
            
             
      
          
            
              By-product
      – North America (100%)b
            
             
      
            
              25
            
             
      
             
      
            
              30
            
             
      
             
      
            
              30
            
             
      
             
      
            
              31
            
             
      
             
      
            
              30
            
             
      
          
            
              By-product
      – Cerro Verde (53.56%)
            
             
      
            
              2
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
            
             
      
            
              54
            
             
      
             
      
            
              73
            
             
      
             
      
            
              70
            
             
      
             
      
            
              68
            
             
      
             
      
            
              62
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              53
            
             
      
             
      
            
              72
            
             
      
             
      
            
              70
            
             
      
             
      
            
              68
            
             
      
             
      
            
              62
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
    
    
      

            
              a.  
            
            
              For
      comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31,
      2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
      pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition data represent the results of
      these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not
      necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
      management or of future operating
results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              b.  
            
            
              Amounts
      are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner
      interest.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              c.  
            
            
              Includes
      North America copper production of 258 million pounds and South America
      copper production of 259 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              d.  
            
            
              Amounts
      are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in
      accordance with terms of the joint venture
  agreement.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              e.  
            
            
              Includes
      gold production of 21 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              f.  
            
            
              Includes
      molybdenum production of 14 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s
      pre-acquisition results.
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          23
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    SALES
DATA
    
    For
comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition operating data represent the
results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is
not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
management or of future operating results.
    
    
      

             
      
             
      
            
              Years
      Ended December 31,
            
             
      
          
            
              COPPER
      (millions of recoverable pounds)
            
             
      
            
              2009
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2008
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2007a
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2006a
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2005a
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MINED COPPER (FCX’s net
      interest in %)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
      (85%)b
            
             
      
            
              459
            
             
      
             
      
            
              646
            
             
      
             
      
            
              693
            
             
      
             
      
            
              692
            
             
      
             
      
            
              680
            
             
      
          
            
              Bagdad
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              225
            
             
      
             
      
            
              226
            
             
      
             
      
            
              200
            
             
      
             
      
            
              165
            
             
      
             
      
            
              209
            
             
      
          
            
              Safford
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              176
            
             
      
             
      
            
              107
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Sierrita
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              172
            
             
      
             
      
            
              184
            
             
      
             
      
            
              157
            
             
      
             
      
            
              161
            
             
      
             
      
            
              165
            
             
      
          
            
              Tyrone
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              85
            
             
      
             
      
            
              71
            
             
      
             
      
            
              53
            
             
      
             
      
            
              64
            
             
      
             
      
            
              81
            
             
      
          
            
              Chino
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              52
            
             
      
             
      
            
              174
            
             
      
             
      
            
              186
            
             
      
             
      
            
              186
            
             
      
             
      
            
              209
            
             
      
          
            
              Miami
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              16
            
             
      
             
      
            
              20
            
             
      
             
      
            
              24
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              29
            
             
      
          
            
              Other
      (100%)
            
             
      
            
              2
            
             
      
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              16
            
             
      
             
      
            
              10
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      North America
            
             
      
            
              1,187
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,434
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,332
            
            
              c
            
             
      
            
              1,303
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,383
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde (53.56%)
            
             
      
            
              667
            
             
      
             
      
            
              701
            
             
      
             
      
            
              587
            
             
      
             
      
            
              214
            
             
      
             
      
            
              205
            
             
      
          
            
              Candelaria/Ojos
      del Salado (80%)
            
             
      
            
              366
            
             
      
             
      
            
              455
            
             
      
             
      
            
              447
            
             
      
             
      
            
              425
            
             
      
             
      
            
              421
            
             
      
          
            
              El
      Abra (51%)
            
             
      
            
              361
            
             
      
             
      
            
              365
            
             
      
             
      
            
              365
            
             
      
             
      
            
              487
            
             
      
             
      
            
              467
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      South America
            
             
      
            
              1,394
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,521
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,399
            
            
              c
            
             
      
            
              1,126
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,093
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      (90.64%)d
            
             
      
            
              1,400
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,111
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,131
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,201
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,457
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
                  Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
                      Tenke
      Fungurume (57.75%)
            
             
      
            
              130
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
            
             
      
            
              4,111
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,066
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,862
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,630
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,933
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      minority participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              746
            
             
      
             
      
            
              699
            
             
      
             
      
            
              647
            
             
      
             
      
            
              535
            
             
      
             
      
            
              545
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              3,365
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,367
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,215
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,095
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,388
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      sales from mines
            
             
      
            
              4,111
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,066
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,862
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,630
            
             
      
             
      
            
              3,933
            
             
      
          
            
              Purchased
      copper
            
             
      
            
              166
            
             
      
             
      
            
              483
            
             
      
             
      
            
              650
            
             
      
             
      
            
              736
            
             
      
             
      
            
              821
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      consolidated sales
            
             
      
            
              4,277
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,549
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,512
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,366
            
             
      
             
      
            
              4,754
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Average
      realized price per pound
            
             
      
            
              $2.60
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $2.69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $3.22
            
            
              e
            
             
      
            
              $2.80
            
            
              e
            
             
      
            
              $1.66
            
            
              e
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              GOLD (thousands
      of recoverable ounces)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MINED GOLD (FCX’s net
      interest in %)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              North
      America (100%)b
            
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
             
      
            
              16
            
             
      
             
      
            
              21
            
             
      
             
      
            
              19
            
             
      
             
      
            
              18
            
             
      
          
            
              South
      America (80%)
            
             
      
            
              90
            
             
      
             
      
            
              116
            
             
      
             
      
            
              114
            
            
              f
            
             
      
            
              111
            
             
      
             
      
            
              117
            
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
      (90.64%)d
            
             
      
            
              2,543
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,182
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,185
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,736
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,790
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
            
             
      
            
              2,639
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,314
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,320
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,866
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,925
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      minority participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              256
            
             
      
             
      
            
              134
            
             
      
             
      
            
              228
            
             
      
             
      
            
              185
            
             
      
             
      
            
              285
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              2,383
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,180
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,092
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,681
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,640
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      sales from mines
            
             
      
            
              2,639
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,314
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,320
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,866
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,925
            
             
      
          
            
              Purchased
      gold
            
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2
            
             
      
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
             
      
            
              12
            
             
      
             
      
            
              12
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      consolidated sales
            
             
      
            
              2,640
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,316
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,326
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1,878
            
             
      
             
      
            
              2,937
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Average
      realized price per ounce
            
             
      
            
              $993
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $861
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $682
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $566
            
            
              g
            
             
      
            
              $454
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              MOLYBDENUM  (millions
      of recoverable pounds)
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      sales from mines
            
             
      
            
              58
            
             
      
             
      
            
              71
            
             
      
             
      
            
              69
            
            
              h
            
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              60
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Less
      minority participants’ share
            
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Net
            
             
      
            
              57
            
             
      
             
      
            
              70
            
             
      
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              60
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      sales from mines
            
             
      
            
              58
            
             
      
             
      
            
              71
            
             
      
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
             
      
            
              60
            
             
      
          
            
              Purchased
      molybdenum
            
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
             
      
            
              8
            
             
      
             
      
            
              9
            
             
      
             
      
            
              8
            
             
      
             
      
            
              13
            
             
      
          
            
              Total
      consolidated sales
            
             
      
            
              64
            
             
      
             
      
            
              79
            
             
      
             
      
            
              78
            
             
      
             
      
            
              77
            
             
      
             
      
            
              73
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Average
      realized price per pound
            
             
      
            
              $12.36
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $30.55
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $25.87
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $21.87
            
             
      
             
      
            
              $25.89
            
             
      
          
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        24
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    
    
      

            
              a.  
            
            
              For
      comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31,
      2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
      pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition data represent the results of
      these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not
      necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
      management or of future operating
results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              b.  
            
            
              Amounts
      are net of Morenci’s joint venture partner’s 15 percent
      interest.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              c.  
            
            
              Includes
      North America copper sales of 283 million pounds and South America copper
      sales of 222 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              d.  
            
            
              Amounts
      are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in
      accordance with terms of the joint venture
  agreement.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              e.  
            
            
              Before
      charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs,
      amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76
      per pound for 2005.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              f.  
            
            
              Includes
      gold sales of 18 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              g.  
            
            
              Amount
      was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss on redemption of our
      Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock, Series
II.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              h.  
            
            
              Includes
      molybdenum sales of 17 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.
            
          
    
     
    DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS AND EXPLORATION
     
    We have
several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes,
extend our mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. During
fourth-quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because
of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for
2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and
the Tenke Fungurume project, for which construction activities on the initial
project are complete. During fourth-quarter 2009, we announced that we are
resuming certain project development activities that were deferred. For further
discussion of our development projects and exploration activities, refer to Item
7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”
    
    As
discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” we have several projects in progress in
the Grasberg mineral district, including development of the Common
Infrastructure project, Grasberg Block Cave, the Big Gossan underground mine, a
further expansion of the DOZ underground mine (which is substantially complete)
and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone ore body. We also have an additional
long-term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district
for the Kucing Liar ore body, which is discussed below and is based on our
latest mine plans and proven and probable reserves as of December 31,
2009.
    
    The
Kucing Liar ore body lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern
portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. We expect
to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block-cave method. A pre-feasibility
study for the development of the Kucing Liar ore body was completed during 2009
and indicated aggregate capital costs of approximately $2.5
billion.
    
    Based on
current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine
development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450
million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio
Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long-term
nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially
from these estimates.
    
    In
addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans
include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing
facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg
open-pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made
between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing
plans to maximize the value of our reserves.
    
    SMELTING
FACILITIES
    
    Atlantic Copper,
S.A.  Atlantic Copper is our wholly owned copper smelter and
refinery located in Huelva, Spain. Atlantic Copper completed the last expansion
of its production capacity in 1997. The design capacity of the smelter is
290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity
of 260,000 metric tons of copper per year. We have no present plans to expand
Atlantic Copper’s production capacity. Atlantic Copper’s facilities are located
on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain port authorities and expire in
2027.
    
    During
2009, Atlantic Copper treated 1,000,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and
produced 269,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 256,600 metric tons of copper
cathodes. During 2008, Atlantic Copper treated 1,028,100 metric tons of
concentrate and scrap and produced 259,900 metric tons of copper anodes and
257,100 metric tons of copper cathodes. In June 2007, Atlantic Copper completed
a scheduled 23-day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds
typically occur approximately every 12 years for Atlantic Copper, with
significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds occurring in the interim. The
next scheduled maintenance 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        25
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    activity
at Atlantic Copper is in 2011.
    
    During
2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate
requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our
South America copper mines at market prices. Atlantic Copper has experienced no
significant operating problems.
    
    We made
no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper from 2005 through 2009. We loan
funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time, and at December 31, 2009, these
loans totaled $381 million. Our net investment in Atlantic Copper at December
31, 2009, was approximately $70 million.
    
    PT
Smelting.  PT Freeport Indonesia’s 1991 COW required us to
construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the
Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically
viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered
into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company,
and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT
Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials),
Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) and Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd.
(Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively,
of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock. PT Smelting owns and operates the
smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia.
    
    During
2006, PT Smelting completed an expansion of its production capacity to 275,000
metric tons of copper per year from 250,000 metric tons. PT Freeport Indonesia’s
contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper
concentrate requirements necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric
tons of copper annually (essentially the smelter’s original design capacity) on
a priority basis. For the first 15 years of PT Smelting’s commercial operations,
beginning December 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed that the combined
treatment and refining charges (fees paid to smelters by miners) would
approximate market rates, but will not fall below specified minimum rates. The
minimum rate, applicable to the period April 27, 2008 to April 27, 2014, is to
be determined annually and to be sufficient to cover PT Smelting’s annual cash
operating costs (net of credits and including costs of debt service) for 205,000
metric tons of copper. The maximum rate is $0.30 per pound. The agreement is an
amendment to the long-term contract, which was approved by the Department of
Energy and Mineral Resources of the Government of Indonesia in 2009. PT Freeport
Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates, which
are not subject to a minimum or maximum rate, for quantities in excess of
205,000 metric tons of copper annually.
    
    During
2009, PT Smelting treated 1,073,900 metric tons of concentrate and produced
310,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 286,000 metric tons of copper cathodes.
During 2008, PT Smelting treated 978,100 metric tons of concentrate and produced
261,300 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,400 metric tons of copper cathodes.
Higher volumes of anodes in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily reflect a 25-day
maintenance turnaround in the second quarter of 2008. Major maintenance
turnarounds typically occur approximately every four years for PT Smelting, with
significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.
    
    Miami
Smelter.  We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona
mining operation. The smelter processes concentrate primarily from our Arizona
mines. The smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been
upgraded during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production
and to comply with current air quality standards. Concentrate processed through
the smelter totaled approximately 619,000 metric tons in 2009 and 719,000 metric
tons in 2008. The Miami smelter completed a 40-day major maintenance turnaround
in February 2009. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately
every 20 months for Miami, with significantly shorter term maintenance
turnarounds in the interim. Sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting
concentrates, and the Miami smelter is the most significant source of sulphuric
acid for our U.S. leaching operations.
    
    OTHER
PROPERTIES
    
    Rod & Refining
Operations.  Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion
facilities located in North America including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod
mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona; and a
specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper
anode production from our smelter in Miami, Arizona, along with purchased
anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has an annual production
capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to
refine all the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also
produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material
containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        26
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Molybdenum
Conversion Facilities.  We process molybdenum concentrates
at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as
technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium
molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate
molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the
Netherlands.
     
    The
conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum
roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a
toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related
products.
     
    The Fort
Madison, Iowa, facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphuric acid
plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical
conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment
and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant,
molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals
for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to
metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium
dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium
octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum
disulfide.
     
    The
Rotterdam conversion facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid
plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant
produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium
dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals
plant.
     
    We also
produce ferromolybdenum for worldwide customers at our conversion plant located
in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and
external customer tolling facility.
    
    SOURCES
AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
    
    Energy
(including electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas), sulphuric acid and
water are the principal raw materials used in our operations. Most of our energy
is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. For additional
information, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”
    
    Sulphuric
acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the
smelting process at our smelters. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the
sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as
needed.
    
    Our
mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore
processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining
operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our
mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could
require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion
of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, see
Item 1A. – “Risk Factors” and Item 3. – “Legal Proceedings.”
    
    COMPETITION
     
    We are
one of the world’s largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms
of reserves and production. With respect to copper, which generated
approximately 75 percent of our mining revenues in 2009, the top 10 producers
comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We
currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total
worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based
on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs
compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations
with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the
location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including
energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to
maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to
acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to
manage our costs.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        27
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    LABOR
MATTERS
    
    At
December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,400 people (approximately 11,900
in Indonesia, 8,400 in North America, 4,400 in South America, 2,900 in Africa
and 800 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that
have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 8,600 at our
Grasberg minerals district, 4,900 at our South America operations, 2,100 at
Tenke Fungurume, 600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper. Employees
represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees
represented and the expiration date of the applicable union
agreements.
    
    
      

             
             
            Number
      of
             
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Union-
            
             
      
          
             
      
            
              Number
      of
            
            
              Represented
            
             
      
          
            
              Location
            
            
              Unions
            
            
              Employees
            
            
              Expiration
      Date
            
          
            
              PT
      Freeport Indonesia – Indonesia
            
            
              1
            
            
              6,794
            
            
              September
      2011
            
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume – DRC
            
            
              2
            
            
              2,927
            
            
              May
      2010
            
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde – Peru
            
            
              1
            
            
              1,023
            
            
              August
      2011
            
          
            
              El
      Abra – Chile
            
            
              2
            
            
              794
            
            
              July
      2012
            
          
            
              Candelaria
      – Chile
            
            
              2
            
            
              603
            
            
              July
      2013
            
          
            
              Atlantic
      Copper – Spain
            
            
              2
            
            
              402
            
            
              December
      2011
            
          
            
              Bayway
      – New Jersey
            
            
              1
            
            
              50
            
            
              April
      2010
            
          
            
              Stowmarket
      – United Kingdom
            
            
              1
            
            
              40
            
            
              May
      2011
            
          
            
              Aurex
      – Chile
            
            
              1
            
            
              33
            
            
              December
      2013
            
          
            
              Rotterdam
      – The Netherlands
            
            
              2
            
            
              22
            
            
              March
      2011
            
          
            
              Chino
      – New Mexico
            
            
              1
            
            
              14
            
            
              November
      2009a
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              a.
            
            
              Negotiations
      are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of
      the expired contract.
            
          
    
    
    FM
Services Company (FM Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, furnishes
certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar
services to us. As of December 31, 2009, FM Services had 167 employees. FM
Services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded
companies.
    
    ENVIRONMENTAL
AND RECLAMATION MATTERS
    
    The costs
of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of
our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and
related costs, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors;” Item 3. “Legal Proceedings;” Note
1 and Note 14.
    
    COMMUNITY
AND HUMAN RIGHTS
    
    We have
adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities
where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a
manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people
impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on
community development, education, training and cultural programs, which
include:
    
    · comprehensive job training
programs
    · basic education programs
    · public health programs, including
malaria
control                                                                                                
    · agricultural assistance
programs
    · small and medium enterprise
development programs
    · cultural preservation
programs
    ·    
water and sewage treatment projects
    ·    
clean water access
    · charitable donations
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        28
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    
    In
December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department-British Foreign
Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (“Voluntary
Principles”). Several major natural resources companies and international human
rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and
have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are
incorporated into our human rights policy.
    
    We
believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the
issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should
help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid
disruptions of mining operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability
in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. See
Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    South
America.  Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community
support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with
local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the
design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the
benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion
so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. We have
funded approximately 150 million Peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49
million) as of December 31, 2009, to a designated bank account to be used for
financing Cerro Verde’s share of the construction costs of these
facilities.
    
    During
2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in
Peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year
period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. The
contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits, of which 2.75
percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional
mining fund. Cerro Verde’s contributions totaled $28 million in both 2009 and
2008 and $49 million in 2007.
    
    Indonesia.  In
1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for
Community Development (formerly the Freeport Fund for Irian Jaya Development),
through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical
assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of
the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one
percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its
area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to
the Partnership Fund totaled $59 million in 2009, $34 million in 2008 and $48
million in 2007. Our joint venture partner, Rio Tinto, also contributes to this
fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $69 million in 2009,
$35 million in 2008 and $53 million in 2007.
    
    The
Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat
Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds
we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of
commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives
from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church
leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The
Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of
operations.
    
    Security Matters in
Indonesia. Consistent with our COW
in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have
taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As
part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal
security department, which performs functions such as protecting company
facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and
terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. PT Freeport
Indonesia’s civilian security employees (numbering approximately 725) are
unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. PT
Freeport Indonesia’s share of costs for its internal civilian security
department totaled approximately $18 million for 2009, $22 million for 2008 and
$17 million for 2007. The security department has received human rights training
and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human
rights policy.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the
Government of Indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule
of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals
district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one of
Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to
a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area
of our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible for employing
police and military personnel and directing their operations.
    
    From the
outset of PT Freeport Indonesia’s operations, the government has looked to PT
Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and
assistance for these necessary services because of the limited 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        29
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    resources
of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development
in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s financial support for the Indonesian
government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a
prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property,
better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the
logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesia’s roads and secure its
operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT
Freeport Indonesia’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of
responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to
pursue practices that will promote human rights.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia’s share of support costs for the government-provided
security, currently involving approximately 3,000 Indonesian government security
personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $10 million for
2009, $8 million for 2008 and $9 million for 2007. This supplemental support
consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel,
travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative
costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.
PT Freeport Indonesia’s capital costs for associated infrastructure was
approximately $2 million in 2009 and less than $1 million a year in 2008 and
2007.
    
    Since
July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading
to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including
an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been
three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security
contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian
government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong
commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The
investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary
measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and
milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations
on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Item
1A. – “Risk Factors.”
    
    As
originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests from
U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesia’s support of
Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that
the U.S. government’s investigation had been completed and no action has been
recommended.
    
    Africa.  Tenke
Fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession
in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives that have commenced over the
past three years include a malaria control program, construction and operational
support for six elementary schools, installation of over 40 clean water wells
throughout the concession as well as five villages outside the concession, a
public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000
households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development
programs supporting local entrepreneurs, farmers and women’s income generation,
and literacy groups. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure
in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including
upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission
systems. Additionally, we have committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales
revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local
communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such
as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. This fund
will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to
further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic
community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund
contributions for 2009 totaled approximately $1 million.
    
    Similar
to our operations in Indonesia, Tenke Fungurume is required to engage government
security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. In
this regard, Tenke Fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and
logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the
provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to
Tenke Fungurume for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than
$1 million in 2009.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        30
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    ORE
RESERVES
    
    Recoverable
proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following
pages have been calculated as of December 31, 2009, in accordance with Industry
Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable
reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves
disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and
probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling,
assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as
more fully discussed below. The term “reserve,” as used in the reserve data
presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically
and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The
term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from
dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade
and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the
sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the
geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral
content of reserves are well established. The term “probable reserves” means
reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to
that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or
are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower
than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between
points of observation.
    
    Our
reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical
studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic
values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable
proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest
available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are
prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these
estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology
and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at
December 31, 2009, were determined using long-term average prices of $1.60 per
pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum,
$12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. The London spot
metal prices for the past three years averaged $2.91 per pound for copper and
$847 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged
approximately $23 per pound.
    
    
      

             
      
             
      
            
              Recoverable
      Proven and Probable Reservesa
      at December 31, 2009
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Molybdenum
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
            
              (billion
      pounds)
            
             
      
            
              (million
      ounces)
            
             
      
            
              (million
      pounds)
            
             
      
            
              (million
      ounces)
            
             
      
            
              (billion
      pounds)
            
             
      
          
            
              North
      America
            
             
      
            
               27.7
            
             
      
            
                0.2
            
             
      
            
              2,072
            
             
      
            
                56.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              South
      America
            
             
      
            
               34.0
            
             
      
            
                1.5
            
             
      
            
                 519
            
             
      
            
                88.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
            
               34.1
            
             
      
            
              35.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              125.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
            
                 8.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisb
            
             
      
            
              104.2
            
             
      
            
              37.2
            
             
      
            
              2,591
            
             
      
            
              270.4
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Net
      equity interestc
            
             
      
            
               83.0
            
             
      
            
              33.6
            
             
      
            
              2,350
            
             
      
            
              224.1
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
          
    
     
    
      

            
              a.  
            
            
              Recoverable
      proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we
      expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery
      rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves
      are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically
      and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve
      determination. Recoverable copper reserves in this table include
      2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill
      stockpiles, including our joint venture partner’s interest in the Morenci
      mine.
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              b.  
            
            
              Consolidated
      basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for
      joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and
      at the Grasberg minerals district in
Indonesia.
            
          
    
    
       
      
        

              
                c.  
              
              
                Net
      equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal
      quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest
      ownership.
              
            
      
      
        
          
            
            
          
          
            31
            
              
            
          
          
            Table of Contents
          
        
    
    
      

            
              
Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves
            
          
            
              Estimated at December 31,
    2009
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Proven
      Reserves
            
             
      
            
              Probable
      Reserves
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Average
      Ore Grade
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Average
      Ore Grade
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Processing
            
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Method
            
             
      
            
              metric
      tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              metric
      tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              177
            
             
      
            
              0.55
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.025
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
            
              0.77
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              358
            
             
      
            
              0.62
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              7
            
             
      
            
              0.62
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              2,554
            
             
      
            
              0.20
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
            
              0.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              1,310
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.029
            
             
      
            
              1.51
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              131
            
             
      
            
              0.23
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.023
            
             
      
            
              1.34
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              4
            
             
      
            
              0.18
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              1
            
             
      
            
              0.13
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              660
            
             
      
            
              0.37
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.022
            
             
      
            
              1.84
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              99
            
             
      
            
              0.30
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.018
            
             
      
            
              1.49
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              95
            
             
      
            
              0.17
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              110
            
             
      
            
              0.15
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              147
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              96
            
             
      
            
              0.43
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              138
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              42
            
             
      
            
              0.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              134
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.180
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.190
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              54
            
             
      
            
              0.66
            
             
      
            
              0.03
            
             
      
            
              0.013
            
             
      
            
              0.49
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
            
              0.55
            
             
      
            
              0.03
            
             
      
            
              0.014
            
             
      
            
              0.42
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              68
            
             
      
            
              0.41
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              14
            
             
      
            
              0.30
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              74
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              17
            
             
      
            
              0.35
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Climaxa
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              76
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.189
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              114
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.137
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Cobrea
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              71
            
             
      
            
              0.40
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2
            
             
      
            
              0.23
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              5,920
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.016
            
             
      
            
              0.54
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              713
            
             
      
            
              0.23
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.030
            
             
      
            
              0.46
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              746
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.017
            
             
      
            
              1.28
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2,063
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.015
            
             
      
            
              1.12
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              89
            
             
      
            
              0.57
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              73
            
             
      
            
              0.48
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              32
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              0.23
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              440
            
             
      
            
              0.55
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              112
            
             
      
            
              0.50
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              284
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              140
            
             
      
            
              0.30
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              382
            
             
      
            
              0.54
            
             
      
            
              0.12
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.04
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              29
            
             
      
            
              0.59
            
             
      
            
              0.13
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.22
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Ojos
      del Salado
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              6
            
             
      
            
              1.13
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.18
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3
            
             
      
            
              1.08
            
             
      
            
              0.25
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.02
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              1,979
            
             
      
            
              0.47
            
             
      
            
              0.02
            
             
      
            
              0.006
            
             
      
            
              0.89
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2,470
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.012
            
             
      
            
              0.96
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      open pit
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              198
            
             
      
            
              0.96
            
             
      
            
              1.15
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              134
            
             
      
            
              0.81
            
             
      
            
              0.86
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.04
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Ore Zone
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              85
            
             
      
            
              0.65
            
             
      
            
              0.64
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              169
            
             
      
            
              0.57
            
             
      
            
              0.68
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.58
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Grasberg
      block cavea
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              308
            
             
      
            
              1.23
            
             
      
            
              1.15
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.49
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              698
            
             
      
            
              0.94
            
             
      
            
              0.66
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.19
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Kucing
      Liara
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              156
            
             
      
            
              1.32
            
             
      
            
              1.15
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              7.51
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              285
            
             
      
            
              1.20
            
             
      
            
              1.06
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              6.57
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Mill Level Zonea
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              59
            
             
      
            
              1.00
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4.94
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              442
            
             
      
            
              0.87
            
             
      
            
              0.74
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4.38
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Big
      Gossana
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              10
            
             
      
            
              2.49
            
             
      
            
              1.26
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              17.04
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              46
            
             
      
            
              2.20
            
             
      
            
              1.04
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              13.66
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              816
            
             
      
            
              1.12
            
             
      
            
              1.07
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              1,774
            
             
      
            
              0.95
            
             
      
            
              0.77
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4.16
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              Agitation
      leach
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              3.37
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.399
            
             
      
            
              85
            
             
      
            
              2.99
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.289
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Total
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              8,765
            
             
      
            
              0.42
            
             
      
            
              0.11
            
             
      
            
              0.012
            
             
      
            
              0.96
            
             
      
            
              0.002
            
             
      
            
              5,042
            
             
      
            
              0.61
            
             
      
            
              0.27
            
             
      
            
              0.010
            
             
      
            
              2.00
            
             
      
            
              0.005
            
          
             
      
          
            
              a. Undeveloped
      reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into
      production.
            
          
            
              b. Grade
      not shown because of rounding.
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              The
      reserve table above and the tables on pages 33 to 35 and 40 utilize the
      following abbreviations:
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              g/t
      – grams per metric ton
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              Moly
      – Molybdenum
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              ROM
      – Run of Mine
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        32
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
     
    
      

             
      
          
             
      
          
             
      
          
            
              Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves
            
          
            
              Estimated at December 31,
    2009
            
          
            
              (continued)
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Average
      Ore Grade
            
             
      
            
              Recoveriesa
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Proven
      and
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Probable
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Processing
            
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Method
            
             
      
            
              metric
      tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              %
            
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              178
            
             
      
            
              0.55
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.025
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              79.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              27.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              365
            
             
      
            
              0.62
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              77.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              2,623
            
             
      
            
              0.21
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              43.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              1,441
            
             
      
            
              0.25
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.028
            
             
      
            
              1.50
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              81.9
            
             
      
            
              59.1
            
             
      
            
              80.5
            
             
      
            
              49.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              5
            
             
      
            
              0.17
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              55.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              759
            
             
      
            
              0.36
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
              b
            
            
              0.021
            
             
      
            
              1.79
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              84.5
            
             
      
            
              59.1
            
             
      
            
              72.1
            
             
      
            
              49.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              205
            
             
      
            
              0.16
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              28.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              243
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              69.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              180
            
             
      
            
              0.30
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              62.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              138
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.180
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              86.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              60
            
             
      
            
              0.65
            
             
      
            
              0.03
            
             
      
            
              0.013
            
             
      
            
              0.48
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              77.1
            
             
      
            
              77.9
            
             
      
            
              35.3
            
             
      
            
              78.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              82
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              61.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              91
            
             
      
            
              0.43
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              63.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Climax
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              190
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.158
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              88.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Cobre
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              73
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              65.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              6,633
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              2,809
            
             
      
            
              0.40
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.015
            
             
      
            
              1.16
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              86.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              52.6
            
             
      
            
              59.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              162
            
             
      
            
              0.53
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              76.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              82
            
             
      
            
              0.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              43.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              552
            
             
      
            
              0.54
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              55.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              424
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              26.0
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              411
            
             
      
            
              0.54
            
             
      
            
              0.12
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.05
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              91.0
            
             
      
            
              79.0
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              76.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Ojos
      del Salado
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              9
            
             
      
            
              1.12
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.12
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              89.8
            
             
      
            
              59.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              66.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4,449
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      open pit
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              332
            
             
      
            
              0.90
            
             
      
            
              1.03
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.25
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              83.5
            
             
      
            
              81.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              43.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Ore Zone
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              254
            
             
      
            
              0.60
            
             
      
            
              0.67
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2.80
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              84.2
            
             
      
            
              75.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              57.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Grasberg
      block cave
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              1,006
            
             
      
            
              1.03
            
             
      
            
              0.81
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              3.29
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              85.5
            
             
      
            
              66.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              60.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Kucing
      Liar
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              441
            
             
      
            
              1.24
            
             
      
            
              1.09
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              6.90
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              85.3
            
             
      
            
              45.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              38.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Mill Level Zone
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              501
            
             
      
            
              0.89
            
             
      
            
              0.74
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              4.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              85.9
            
             
      
            
              76.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              62.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Big
      Gossan
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              56
            
             
      
            
              2.25
            
             
      
            
              1.08
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              14.25
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              92.2
            
             
      
            
              67.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              64.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              2,590
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              Agitation
      leach
            
             
      
            
              135
            
             
      
            
              3.13
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
               
            
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.33
            
             
      
            
              89.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
            
               
            
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              80.0
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Total
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              13,807
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              a. Recoveries
      are net of estimated mill and smelter losses.
            
          
            
              b. Grade
      not shown because of rounding.
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          33
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    
      

            
              Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves
            
          
            
              Estimated at December 31,
    2009
            
          
            
              (continued)
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Recoverable
      Reserves
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              Silver
            
             
      
            
              Cobalt
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              FCX’s
            
             
      
            
              Processing
            
             
      
            
              billion
            
             
      
            
              million
            
             
      
            
              billion
            
             
      
            
              million
            
             
      
            
              billion
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Interest
            
             
      
            
              Method
            
             
      
            
              lbs.
            
             
      
            
              ozs.
            
             
      
            
              lbs.
            
             
      
            
              ozs.
            
             
      
            
              lbs.
            
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              85%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              1.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.03
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              3.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              5.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              6.6
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
             
      
            
              0.73
            
             
      
            
              34.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              5.1
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              21.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              1.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.47
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              0.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.01
            
             
      
            
              0.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Climax
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.58
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Cobre
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              27.1
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              2.08
            
             
      
            
              56.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              2.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              100%
      operations
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              29.4
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              2.08
            
             
      
            
              56.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              27.7
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              2.07
            
             
      
            
              56.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Net
      equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              27.7
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              2.07
            
             
      
            
              56.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              53.56%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              21.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.50
            
             
      
            
              62.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              1.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              51%
            
             
      
            
              Crushed
      leach
            
             
      
            
              3.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              ROM
      leach
            
             
      
            
              0.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              80%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              4.5
            
             
      
            
              1.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              20.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Ojos
      del Salado
            
             
      
            
              80%
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              32.3
            
             
      
            
              1.3
            
             
      
            
              0.50
            
             
      
            
              83.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              1.7
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
             
      
            
              0.02
            
             
      
            
              4.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              100%
      operations
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              34.0
            
             
      
            
              1.5
            
             
      
            
              0.52
            
             
      
            
              88.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              34.0
            
             
      
            
              1.5
            
             
      
            
              0.52
            
             
      
            
              88.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Net
      equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              19.6
            
             
      
            
              1.2
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              53.7
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      open pit
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              5.5
            
             
      
            
              8.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              10.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Ore Zone
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              2.8
            
             
      
            
              4.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              13.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Grasberg
      block cave
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              19.5
            
             
      
            
              17.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              64.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Kucing
      Liar
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              10.3
            
             
      
            
              7.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              37.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Deep
      Mill Level Zone
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              8.4
            
             
      
            
              9.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              44.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Big
      Gossan
            
             
      
            
              (c)
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              2.6
            
             
      
            
              1.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              16.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              49.1
            
             
      
            
              48.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              187.0
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              100%
      operations
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              49.1
            
             
      
            
              48.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              187.0
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              34.1
            
             
      
            
              35.5
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              125.6
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Net
      equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              30.9
            
             
      
            
              32.2
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              113.9
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              57.75%
            
             
      
            
              Agitation
      leach
            
            
              8.3
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
          
            
              Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              0.1
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              100%
      operations
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              8.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              8.4
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
          
            
              Net
      equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4.8
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              TOTAL
      –  100% operations
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              120.9
            
             
      
            
              49.8
            
             
      
            
              2.60
            
             
      
            
              331.8
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
          
            
              TOTAL
      –  Consolidated basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              104.2
            
             
      
            
              37.2
            
             
      
            
              2.59
            
             
      
            
              270.4
            
             
      
            
              0.78
            
          
            
              TOTAL
      –  Net equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              83.0
            
             
      
            
              33.6
            
             
      
            
              2.35
            
             
      
            
              224.1
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              a. Consolidated
      basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint
      venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the
      Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.
            
          
            
              b. Net equity
      interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further
      reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.
            
          
            
              c. Our
      joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia
      will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and
      silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable
      reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash
      flow.
            
          
    
    

    
      
        
        
      
      
        34
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    In
defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a “variable cutoff grade” strategy. The
objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our
operations. We use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for
our underground ore bodies. The break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric
ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that
generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs
associated with our production.
    
    Our
copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold,
molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in
terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade.
Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of
multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative
value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as
used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties.
Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. The table below shows
the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of
December 31, 2009:
    
    
      

             
      
             
      
            
              Copper
      Equivalent Cutoff Grades
            
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Molybdenum
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Cutoff
      Grade
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Copper
      Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent)
            
             
      
            
              (Percent)
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Crushed
      or
            
             
      
            
              ROM
            
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              Agitation
      Leach
            
             
      
            
              Leach
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              0.03
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              0.22
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.07
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              0.23
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.08
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.12
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.05
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.12
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              0.31
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.08
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.04
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Climax
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.06
            
          
            
              Cobre
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.17
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              0.20
            
             
      
            
              0.24
            
             
      
            
              0.18
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              0.20
            
             
      
            
              0.07
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              0.22
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Ojos
      del Salado
            
             
      
            
              0.59
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      open pit
            
             
      
            
              0.15
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Deep
      Ore Zone
            
             
      
            
              0.65
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Grasberg
      block cave
            
             
      
            
              0.53
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Kucing
      Liar
            
             
      
            
              0.75
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Deep
      Mill Level Zone
            
             
      
            
              0.69
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Big
      Gossan
            
             
      
            
              1.41
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              1.01
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          35
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Drill
hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and
geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a
relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to
achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing
is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification.
Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to
support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of
development of a mineral deposit. The following table sets forth the average
drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for
proven and probable ore reserves by process type:
    
    
      

            
              Average
      Drill Hole Spacing
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Average
      Spacing in Meters
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Proven
            
             
      
            
              Probable
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Mining
      Unit
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              Leach
            
             
      
            
              Mill
            
             
      
            
              Leach
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              122
            
             
      
            
              122
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
            
              33
            
             
      
            
              115
            
             
      
            
              75
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              122
            
             
      
            
              122
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              61
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              122
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              86
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              Block
      Cave
            
             
      
            
              38
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              85
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              43
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              86
            
             
      
            
              122
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              61
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              91
            
          
            
              Climax
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              61
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              122
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Cobre
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              61
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              91
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              100
            
             
      
            
              100
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              75
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              120
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              35
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              70
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Ojos
      del Salado
            
             
      
            
              Sublevel
      Stoping
            
             
      
            
              25
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              36
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              92
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Deep
      Ore Zone
            
             
      
            
              Block
      Cave
            
             
      
            
              20
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              51
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Grasberg
            
             
      
            
              Block
      Cave
            
             
      
            
              47
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              80
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Kucing
      Liar
            
             
      
            
              Block
      Cave
            
             
      
            
              39
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              97
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Deep
      Mill Level Zone
            
             
      
            
              Block
      Cave
            
             
      
            
              21
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              89
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
            
              Big
      Gossan
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Stope
            
             
      
            
              13
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              42
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              Open
      Pit
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              N/A
            
             
      
            
              100
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          36
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Production
Sequencing
    
    The
following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the
December 31, 2009, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and
the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart
also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesia’s COW. Production volumes are
typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development
activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and
production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life.
The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is
dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and
development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we
develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore
bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of
these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected
below.
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        37
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Mill
and Leach Stockpiles
    
    Mill and
leach stockpiles generally contain lower-grade ores that have been extracted
from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles,
recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or,
alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is
through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver
it in solution to extraction processing facilities.
    
    Because
it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach
stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The
quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed
volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of
blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered
to mill and leach stockpiles.
    
    Expected
copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical
testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the
production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost
immediately.
    
    Expected
copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale
laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the
production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including
mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in
leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90
percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery,
mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active
stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be
extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over
many years.
    
    Processes
and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are
adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related
technology changes.
    
    Following
are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those
stockpiles as of December 31, 2009:
    
    
      

            
              Recoverable
      Copper in Stockpiles
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Recoverable
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Millions
      of
            
             
      
            
              Average
            
             
      
            
              Recovery
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Metric
      Tons
            
             
      
            
              Grade
      (%)
            
             
      
            
              Rate
      (%)
            
             
      
            
              (Billion
      Pounds)
            
          
            
              Mill stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              72
            
             
      
            
              0.46
            
             
      
            
              81.9
            
             
      
            
              0.6
            
          
            
              Candelaria
            
             
      
            
              91
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              82.7
            
             
      
            
              0.7
            
          
            
              Subtotal
            
             
      
            
              163
            
             
      
            
              0.42
            
             
      
            
              82.3
            
             
      
            
              1.3
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Leach stockpiles
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
              4,581
            
             
      
            
              0.25
            
             
      
            
              1.8
            
             
      
            
              0.4
            
          
            
              Sierrita
            
             
      
            
              648
            
             
      
            
              0.15
            
             
      
            
              13.1
            
             
      
            
              0.3
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              391
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              3.0
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
          
            
              Safford
            
             
      
            
              69
            
             
      
            
              0.43
            
             
      
            
              27.9
            
             
      
            
              0.2
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              967
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              2.2
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              1,623
            
             
      
            
              0.25
            
             
      
            
              12.2
            
             
      
            
              1.1
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              433
            
             
      
            
              0.38
            
             
      
            
              1.5
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              354
            
             
      
            
              0.54
            
             
      
            
              2.7
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
              278
            
             
      
            
              0.33
            
             
      
            
              17.5
            
             
      
            
              0.3
            
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume
            
             
      
            
              4
            
             
      
            
              0.98
            
             
      
            
              86.1
            
             
      
            
              0.1
            
          
            
              Subtotal
            
             
      
            
              9,348
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              5.1
            
             
      
            
              2.8
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Total
      100% basis
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4.1
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated
      basisa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4.0
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Net
      equity interestb
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              3.4
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              a. Consolidated
      basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint
      venture partner’s interest in the Morenci mine in North
      America.
            
          
            
              b. Net equity
      interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further
      reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.
            
          
            
               
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        38
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    MINERALIZED
MATERIAL
    
    We hold
various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be
brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting
and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could
commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that
has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling
to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit may not
qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic
feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development
costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated
mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using
prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound
of molybdenum.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          39
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    
      

            
              Mineralized
      Material
            
          
            
              Estimated
      at December 31, 2009
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Milling
      Material
            
             
      
            
              Leaching
      Material
            
             
      
            
              Total
      Mineralized Material
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              Million
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
            
              FCX’s
            
             
      
            
              metric
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
             
      
            
              metric
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              metric
            
             
      
            
              Copper
            
             
      
            
              Gold
            
             
      
            
              Moly
            
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Interest
            
             
      
            
              tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              tons
            
             
      
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              g/t
            
             
      
            
              %
            
          
            
              North America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Morenci
            
             
      
            
               85%
            
             
      
            
              342
            
             
      
            
              0.41
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.016
            
             
      
            
              1,965
            
             
      
            
              0.22
            
             
      
            
              2,307
            
             
      
            
              0.25
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.002
            
          
            
              Sierritaa
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              2,312
            
             
      
            
              0.20
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.022
            
             
      
            
              37
            
             
      
            
              0.15
            
             
      
            
              2,349
            
             
      
            
              0.20
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.022
            
          
            
              Bagdad
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              589
            
             
      
            
              0.35
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.019
            
             
      
            
              118
            
             
      
            
              0.13
            
             
      
            
              707
            
             
      
            
              0.31
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.016
            
          
            
              Saffordb
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              643
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
            
              0.08
            
             
      
            
              0.004
            
             
      
            
              103
            
             
      
            
              0.29
            
             
      
            
              746
            
             
      
            
              0.43
            
             
      
            
              0.07
            
             
      
            
              0.004
            
          
            
              Tyrone
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              135
            
             
      
            
              0.31
            
             
      
            
              135
            
             
      
            
              0.31
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Henderson
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              65
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.131
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              65
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.131
            
          
            
              Chino
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              462
            
             
      
            
              0.42
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.010
            
             
      
            
              71
            
             
      
            
              0.29
            
             
      
            
              533
            
             
      
            
              0.40
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.009
            
          
            
              Miami
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              41
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
            
              41
            
             
      
            
              0.45
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Climax
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              528
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.165
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              528
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.165
            
          
            
              Cobre
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              44
            
             
      
            
              0.55
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              12
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              56
            
             
      
            
              0.49
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Ajoc
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              639
            
             
      
            
              0.36
            
             
      
            
              0.07
            
             
      
            
              0.007
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              639
            
             
      
            
              0.36
            
             
      
            
              0.07
            
             
      
            
              0.007
            
          
            
              Cochise/Bisbee
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              301
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              301
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Lone
      Star
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              767
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              767
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Sanchez
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              190
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              190
            
             
      
            
              0.28
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Tohono
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              247
            
             
      
            
              0.68
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              280
            
             
      
            
              0.67
            
             
      
            
              527
            
             
      
            
              0.68
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Twin
      Buttesd
            
             
      
            
              100%
            
             
      
            
              619
            
             
      
            
              0.46
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.026
            
             
      
            
              67
            
             
      
            
              0.22
            
             
      
            
              686
            
             
      
            
              0.43
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.024
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              South America
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Cerro
      Verde
            
             
      
            
              53.56%
            
             
      
            
              1,007
            
             
      
            
              0.37
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.014
            
             
      
            
              4
            
             
      
            
              0.32
            
             
      
            
              1,011
            
             
      
            
              0.37
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              0.014
            
          
            
              El
      Abra
            
             
      
            
               51%
            
             
      
            
              762
            
             
      
            
              0.44
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              330
            
             
      
            
              0.26
            
             
      
            
              1,092
            
             
      
            
              0.39
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Candelariae
            
             
      
            
              80%
            
             
      
            
              81
            
             
      
            
              0.49
            
             
      
            
              0.11
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              81
            
             
      
            
              0.49
            
             
      
            
              0.11
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Indonesia
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Grasberg
      districtf
            
             
      
            
              54.38%k
            
             
      
            
              2,622
            
             
      
            
              0.59
            
             
      
            
              0.53
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              2,622
            
             
      
            
              0.59
            
             
      
            
              0.53
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Africa
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Tenke
      Fungurumeg
            
             
      
            
              57.75%
            
             
      
            
              62
            
             
      
            
              3.38
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              21
            
             
      
            
              2.84
            
             
      
            
              83
            
             
      
            
              3.24
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
            
              Kisanfuh
            
             
      
            
              95%
            
             
      
            
              57
            
             
      
            
              2.30
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              3.01
            
             
      
            
              107
            
             
      
            
              2.63
            
             
      
            
              -
            
             
      
            
              -
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Total
      100% basis
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              11,081
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4,492
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              15,573
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consolidated basisi
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              9,981
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4,198
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              14,179
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Net equity interestj
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              8,948
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              4,023
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
            
              12,971
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
             
      
          
            
              a.
            
            
              Sierrita
      stated tonnage also includes 1.2 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              b.
            
            
              Safford
      stated tonnage also includes 1.4 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              c.
            
            
              Ajo
      stated tonnage also includes 0.9 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              d.
            
            
              Twin
      Buttes stated tonnage also includes 5.2 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              e.
            
            
              Candelaria
      stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              f.
            
            
              Grasberg
      district stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric
      ton.
            
          
            
              g.
            
            
              Tenke
      Fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.30 percent
  cobalt.
            
          
            
              h.
            
            
              Kisanfu
      stated tonnage also includes 1.08 percent cobalt.
            
          
            
              i.
            
            
              Consolidated
      basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our
      joint ventures partners’ interest in the Morenci mine in North America and
      at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.
            
          
            
              j.
            
            
              Net
      equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized
      material further reduced for noncontrolling interest
      ownership.
            
          
            
              k.
            
            
              FCX’s
      interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint
      venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest
      ownership.
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          40
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors
    
    This
report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than
statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated
production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling
rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production
and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment,
environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities
and expenditures, litigation expense and results, dividend payments, reserve
estimates, exploration efforts and results, operating cash flows, copper, gold,
molybdenum and cobalt price changes, deferred intercompany profit impacts on
financial results, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in
our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation, to update or revise any
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may
differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the
forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual
results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking
statements include the following.
    
    Financial
risks
    
    Extended
declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could adversely
affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our
ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or
molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and
adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity
securities.
    
    Our
earnings and cash flows are affected significantly by the market prices of
copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. The world market prices of
these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous
factors beyond our control. For information about movements in the market prices
of these commodities, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Copper, Gold and Molybdenum
Markets.” An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could
(1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our
ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress
the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded
debt securities.
    
    In
addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales and some of our
copper cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The
provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period
(generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted
London Metal Exchange (LME) prices. Accordingly, in times of falling copper
prices, our revenues are negatively affected by lower prices received for
contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the
final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into
in prior periods; in times of rising copper prices, the opposite
occurs.
    
    There
continues to be uncertainty in the global economy, which could negatively affect
the market prices of commodities, including the metals that we produce. If
market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time,
we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production,
reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain
exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in
an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur
losses.
    
    World
copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended
December 31, 2009, LME daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.26 to
$4.08 per pound for copper. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per
pound on January 29, 2010. World copper prices are affected by numerous factors
beyond our control, including:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and
      developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer
      of refined copper in the world;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              available
      supplies of copper from mine production and
  inventories;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              sales
      by holders and producers of copper;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              demand
      for industrial products containing
copper;
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        41
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              investment
      activity, including speculation, in copper as a
  commodity;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      availability and cost of substitute materials;
  and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              currency
      exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the
      U.S. dollar.
            
          
    
    
    World
gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended
December 31, 2009, the daily closing prices on the London spot market ranged
from $608 to $1,213 per ounce for gold. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per
ounce on January 29, 2010. World gold prices are affected by numerous factors
beyond our control, including:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other
      industrialized and developing nations, including
  China;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              global
      or regional political or economic
crises;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other
      currencies;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              expectations
      with respect to the rate of
inflation;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              interest
      rates;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              purchases
      and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other
      holders;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              demand
      for jewelry containing gold; and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              investment
      activity, including speculation, in gold as a
  commodity.
            
          
    
    
    Molybdenum
prices also fluctuate widely. Molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global
steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting
agent. Approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this
application. The remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as
catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. Approximately 50 percent
of global molybdenum production is a by-product of copper mining, which is
relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. During the three years ended
December 31, 2009, the
Metals Week Dealer Oxide weekly average price for molybdenum ranged from
$7.83 to $33.88 per pound. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer
Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. Molybdenum
prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control,
including:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and
  supply;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              rates
      of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure
      activity that requires significant amounts of
  steel;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper
      production;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              inventory
      levels;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              currency
      exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the
      U.S. dollar; and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              production
      costs of U.S. and foreign
competitors.
            
          
    
    
    The
agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests
and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation
of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common
stock.
    
    We
incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to
acquire Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). As of December 31, 2009, the
outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $6.3 billion. The
agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions,
our ability to:
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        42
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              incur
      additional indebtedness;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              engage
      in transactions with affiliates;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              create
      liens on our assets;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              make
      payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including
      the payment of dividends on our common
stock;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              make
      investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including
      joint ventures;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              sell
      assets;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              merge
      with or into other companies;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              enter
      into sale and leaseback
transactions;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              enter
      into unrelated businesses;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              enter
      into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of
      our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other
  distributions;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              prepay
      indebtedness; and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              enter
      into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of
      business.
            
          
    
    
    In April
2008, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings raised
our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB-
(investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to
investment grade by S&P, the restrictions contained in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating
rate senior notes on incurring debt, making restricted payments and
selling assets were suspended.
    
    In
addition, our senior revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain
financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under these
facilities, including a leverage ratio test (Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA,
as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters
cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured
leverage ratio test (Total Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms
are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0
to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). During periods in which
copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions
reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may
not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants.
    
    Our
senior revolving credit facilities and our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate
senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability to make certain payments.
These restrictions vary among the instruments, but generally limit our ability
to pay certain dividends on common and preferred stock, repurchase or redeem
common and preferred equity, prepay subordinated debt and make certain
investments. To the
extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, these covenants in our
8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes would again become
effective. At December 31, 2009, the most restrictive of these covenants
related to restricted payments allowed for payments up to approximately $7.6
billion.
    
    Our
obligations under our senior credit facilities are (1) guaranteed by
substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (2) secured by a pledge of
(a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries
and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier
foreign subsidiaries.
    
    Any
failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities, senior
notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to
any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. Such default may
allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger
cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. We
would not be able to fully repay when due borrowings under our debt instruments
that are accelerated upon an event of default.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        43
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    If we are
unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the
covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event
of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate
their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings
outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and
payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral. Any such
actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
     
    Under U.S.
federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines,
we are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party
to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for
investigation and remediation actions taken under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent
state regulations. The failure to
comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on
us.
     
    We are
required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance
sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation
plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and
cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of
financial assurance.
     
    In July
2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of
facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop
financial responsibility requirements. It is uncertain how the new requirements
will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance
obligations.
     
    As of
December 31, 2009, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure
and reclamation costs totaled approximately $710 million, of which approximately
$414 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial
capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial
assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability
demonstrations in New Mexico and Arizona depends on our ability to meet
financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more
rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a
state-approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, but are not rated investment grade by Moody’s.
If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these
alternate tests, in which case, the regulatory agencies may require us to
provide alternative forms of financial assurance to fully satisfy our financial
assurance obligations, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral.
Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of
financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters
of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity.
Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure
of mines. As of December 31, 2009, we have limited financial assurance
obligations associated with CERCLA-related actions, although EPA and certain
states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance
requirements. For
additional information, see the risk factor “Mine closure regulations impose
substantial costs on our operations” below.
     
    We
need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. If we are unable to
generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and
results of operations could be negatively affected.
    
    As of
December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $6.3
billion. We must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our
debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic,
financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are
beyond our control. Future borrowings may not be available to us under our
senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to
pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. In
addition, disruptions in the credit and financial markets, such as those
beginning in late 2008, can constrain our access to capital and increase its
cost. The inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could
negatively affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
    
    If future
financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to
the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may
be unable to invest needed capital for our development and exploration programs,
take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures,
any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial
condition.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        44
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Movements
in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our
operating results.
    
    Substantially
all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in
U.S. dollars; however, some costs, and certain asset and liability accounts
are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian
dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevos sol and euro. As a result, our results are
adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those
foreign currencies.
    
    At
December 31, 2009, approximately 19 percent of our outstanding debt was subject
to variable interest rates. Increases in these rates will increase our interest
costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows.
    
    From time
to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce
our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. However,
our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign
exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market
fluctuations.
    
    Operational
risks
    
    The
volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may
be more or less than anticipated.
    
    Our ore
reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry
practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be
recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. Estimates
of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable
uncertainty. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and
estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because ore bodies do not
contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary
from time to time.
    
    Additionally,
because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future
selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in
economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in
the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to
period.
    
    There are
also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper
recovered from stockpiles. The quantity of copper contained in mill and leach
stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production
records. The volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and
recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated.
    
    We
must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration
activities may not result in additional discoveries.
    
    Our
ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability.
Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore
bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over
the long term. Open-pit operations at Grasberg are expected to continue through
mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at
our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is under development. Production at the DOZ
mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at
our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under
development, beginning in 2015. In addition, oxide copper production at El Abra
is expected to decline over the next several years and production from the
sulfide ore is expected to begin in 2012.
    
    Exploration
is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks,
require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of
sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site
with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial
phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic
feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to
establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and
processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future
exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of
reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        45
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Development
projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated,
which could adversely affect our business.
    
    There are
many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our
significant future development of underground mines at the Grasberg minerals
district and our development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra. The economic
feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the
accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating
costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and
time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and
changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics.
Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as
a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment
and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Thus it is possible that
actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our
estimates.
    
    New
development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of
future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful
completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits,
acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community
infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is
possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the
operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on
its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to
experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in
producing revenue and increases in invested capital.
    
    The
development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the
following:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              Unanticipated
      geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic
  conditions;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              Challenges
      related to hiring and training the personnel required for the ramp-up in
      underground mining activities;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              Larger
      than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping
      mining methods; and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              Unanticipated
      delays in the development of major access and supporting
      infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical
      components and longer than planned construction
  periods.
            
          
    
    
    Some of
these risks could result in a delay to production start-up and a loss or
reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such
events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business
and results of operations.
    
    Our
business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our
business.
    
    Mines by
their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of
our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business,
operating results and cash flows, include the following:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              earthquakes,
      floods and other natural disasters;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force
      majeure events;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with
      specifications, design or
expectations;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              accidents;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              wall
      failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses
      in our underground mines;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              problems
      associated with the construction and management of large impoundments
      containing tailings or other viscous or semi-solid materials, some of
      which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural
      failures or leakages;
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        46
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              interruption
      of energy supply;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              lower
      than expected ore grades or recovery
rates;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              metallurgical
      and other processing problems;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              unanticipated
      ground and water conditions;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              adverse
      claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have
      rights;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              adjacent
      land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future
      mine operations;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              delays
      in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government
      permits;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              delays
      in transportation and disruptions of supply
  routes;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              labor
      disputes; and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      inability to obtain satisfactory insurance
  coverage.
            
          
    
    
    The
failure to adequately manage some of these risks could result in significant
personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment,
both on and outside our operating sites, as well as damage to production
facilities and delays in production.
    
    Continuation
of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water
supply to support our mining operations.
    
    Our
mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore
processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South
America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for
continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is
dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat
claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. At our U.S.
operations, under state law, our water rights give us only the right to use
public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location.
In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in
which for over 30 years the State of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and
prioritize surface water claims in two of the state’s largest river systems that
affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These
legal proceedings may also affect our Arizona mine at Bagdad. Groundwater is not
subject to adjudication in Arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable
use, which requires balancing the utility of the use against the gravity of the
harm to others who have rights in the same aquifer; however, wells may be
subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect
surface water. In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject
to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes
regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of
our rights for the Climax mine. Our surface water and groundwater rights are
fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in New Mexico.
    
    In South
America, water for our mining operations at Candelaria and Ojos del Salado is
drawn from the Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer
in recent years, ongoing studies are assessing the available supply for our
mining operations at these sites. Due to anticipated shortages in this water
resource, plans are in place to develop new supplementary water supplies.
Construction is under way to convey treated effluent from a nearby sewage
treatment plant to the mine and permitting has begun to construct both a
desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater and a pipeline to
convey the desalinated water to the Candelaria mine.
    
    Water for
our El Abra mining operations in Chile comes from the continued pumping of
groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán pursuant to regulatory approval. At El
Abra, hydrogeologic studies are ongoing to obtain regulatory approval for the
continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán to process sulfide
ore. We expect that the amount of water needed to develop the sulfide ore
project will represent a significant increase over current volumes used in
processing the oxide ore. El Abra is working closely with regulatory authorities
to meet these requirements. Failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approval
or receipt of approval in a less than desired amount could adversely affect our
development of the sulfide ore project as planned.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        47
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Water for
our Cerro Verde mining operations in Peru comes from a series of storage
reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal
precipitation. Our Cerro Verde mining operations recently constructed several
new water reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed to obtain more water rights and
to expand storage capacity. Due to occasional drought and possible effects of
climate change reducing precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are
possible that could affect our operations as currently planned.
    
    Although
each operation currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its
operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or
future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some
or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of
water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining
production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion
opportunities.
    
    An
interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining
operations.
    
    Our
mining operations and development projects require significant amounts of
energy. Our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum
products, natural gas and coal. Our South America mining operations receive
electrical power under long-term contracts with local energy companies. Our
Africa mining operation has entered into long-term power supply and
infrastructure funding agreements with the state-owned electric utility company
serving the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). A
disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission
infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could
interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations.
    
    Increased
production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow.
    
    Energy
represents a significant portion of our production costs. An inability to
procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our
profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are also
affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such
as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and
diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand
trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our
control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in
the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable.
Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also
significantly affect the capital costs of new projects.
    
    In
addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia
operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually
difficult terrain in a very remote area.
    
    Our
Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very
remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome
special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure
facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led
to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic
area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not
sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.
    
    On
October 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg
open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. On December 12, 2003, a debris flow
involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same
section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events
caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans, which adversely
affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities
in the second quarter of 2004.
    
    On March
23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of
material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT
Freeport Indonesia’s mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally
injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As
a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian
Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to
identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from
slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon
rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        48
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    On
September 10, 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000
metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no
injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the
high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal
expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future
periods.
    
    No
assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the
future.
    
    Our
Africa mining operation, Tenke Fungurume, involves additional risks because it
is located in a remote area of the DRC.
    
    Our
Africa mining operation is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to
additional challenges, including:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              severely
      limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in
      disrepair and receives minimal
maintenance;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              limited
      and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from
      power distribution corridors that are not
  maintained;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              challenges
      in obtaining experienced personnel;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              security
      risks; and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              limited
      health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic
      health issues, including malaria and
cholera.
            
          
    
    
    For
example, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of
the production from our Africa mining operation approximately 1,900 miles to
ports in South Africa. Our Africa mining operation and future development may be
substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely
affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of
future development.
    
    Environmental
risks
    
    Our
domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving
environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and
regulatory requirements involves significant costs.
    
    Our
ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and
elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration,
development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances,
waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of
endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with
these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs
to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory
enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of
equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. The Federal Clean Air Act has had
a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any
change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act could have a significant impact, both on
operational compliance and closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and
regulations may change in ways that could substantially increase compliance
costs or adversely affect our operations or expansion
opportunities.
    
    In
addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we
incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties
that have not been operated in many years.
    
    Freeport-McMoRan
Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates
and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and
manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in
the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern
environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were
conducted before American industrial companies understood the long-term effects
of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA
in 1980, companies like Phelps Dodge became legally responsible for
environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them,
irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it.
That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other

     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        49
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    owners
and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully
responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other
historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial
ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition
of Phelps Dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are
responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout
the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to
address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the
release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. As
of December 31, 2009, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the
U.S. in approximately 25 states.
    
    We
incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental
costs, (including our joint venture partners’ shares), to comply with applicable
environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $289 million in
2009, $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007. For 2010, we expect to
incur approximately $426 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures
and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating
budget.
    
    At
December 31, 2009, $1.5 billion of environmental obligations were recorded in
our consolidated balance sheet. Our environmental obligation estimates are based
upon (1) our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts
and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades
ago, (2) our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration
of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake the estimated
costs of those activities, which are subject to varying interpretations, and (3)
our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws
and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain
regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental
obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to
occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual
environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for
these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 14 for more
information on our environmental obligations.
    
    An
adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental
matters could have a material adverse effect on us.
    
    As
described in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, we are a
defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving
environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and
interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more
of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and cash flow.
     
    Mine
closure regulations impose substantial costs on our
operations.
     
    Our
domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting
requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations.
These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The
laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and
reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance
sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we
are unable to do so. In general, our domestic mines are required to review
estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the
time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of
financial assurance as required.
     
    In
addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and
mined-land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in
closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more
stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. Updated closure plans
for our three Chilean operations were submitted to the government in February
2009 and the Peruvian government approved Cerro Verde’s closure plan in October
2009.
     
    Our asset
retirement obligations (AROs), determined as required by generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. totaled $731 million (including
approximately $46 million for the current portion) at December 31, 2009. At
December 31, 2009, we had accrued reclamation and closure costs of $351 million
for our New Mexico operations, $187 million for our Arizona operations and $102
million for PT Freeport Indonesia. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease
significantly in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering
designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of
inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending
occurs.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        50
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Regulation
of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and
adversely affect our operations and markets.
    
    Many
scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels
contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. In
2009, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide
equivalent emissions, were 8.9 million metric tons, nearly equally divided
between direct and indirect emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from
fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide
energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are
generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity
for use in our operations. Approximately 19 percent of our direct emissions are
in North America and 68 percent in Indonesia, and approximately 60 percent of
our indirect emissions are in North America and 38 percent in South
America.
    
    A number
of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes regarding
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in the U.S., the EPA issued final
regulations in September 2009 requiring mandatory monitoring and reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances, commencing in 2010. Our
Morenci mine, Miami smelter and El Paso refinery will likely be required to
report their emissions under this program. In December 2009, the EPA issued
findings under the Clean Air Act that the current and projected concentrations
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. While
the findings themselves do not impose any requirements, they form the basis for
future regulation of our greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. In June 2009, the
U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act
of 2009 (ACES), also known as the Waxman-Markey Bill, which proposes to impose a
“cap and trade” program aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Several
states have also initiated action on their own or as part of regional
organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit emissions of
greenhouse gases. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations
affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a
set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have
ratified the Protocol. Although the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, has
not been ratified by the U.S., the U.S. continues to participate in global
climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future.
    
    We
actively pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, we formed a multi-departmental task
force to focus our efforts on these topics. In addition, since 2006, we have
participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative
that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction
efforts. From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an
increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of
greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other
countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we
purchase from others may increase, if they incur increased costs from the
regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of
any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory
changes in the many countries in which we operate.
    
    The
potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly
uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may
include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels,
changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These
effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of
our operations.
    
    Our
operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be
subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are
commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations.
    
    A number
of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to
characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and
environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining
operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate
technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and
their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating
groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive
materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with
copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations.
Consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release
radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased
regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure,
reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        51
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Our
Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental
challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated
environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased
costs.
    
    Mining
operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant
environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the
large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results
from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and
silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management
plan, which has been approved by the Government of Indonesia, uses the river
system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the
lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition
area. Lateral levees have been engineered and constructed to limit and help
contain the footprint of tailings impact in the lowlands.
    
    Another
major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that
must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the
presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can
generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which,
if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the
environment.
    
    Certain
Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised questions with
respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion
that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for
tailings management and disposition. Because our mining operations are remotely
located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline
system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to
catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially
adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by
third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or
practical.
    
    In
connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian
government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on
the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive
environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted
over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002.
We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods
with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from
the Indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. The
risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of
the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval
documents.
    
    Since
2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesia’s
PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In
October 2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest
results of its PROPER environmental management audit, and gave PT Freeport
Indonesia a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesia’s environmental
management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in
Indonesia and also making several recommendations for improvement.
    
    International
risks
    
    Our
International operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks
of doing business in foreign countries.
    
    We are a
global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We
conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the
Democratic Republic of Congo. Accordingly, our business may be adversely
affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these
countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in
foreign countries. Such risks include (1) renegotiation, cancellation or forced
modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation or nationalization of
property, (3) changes in a foreign country’s laws, regulations and policies,
including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports,
exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political
instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla
activities, insurrection and terrorism, (5) foreign exchange controls, and (6)
the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or
arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or
arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our
insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. Consequently, our
exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be
substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could
materially adversely affect our financial position or results of
operations.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        52
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    In
December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayer’s Office
of the Government of Indonesia that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay
value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of
taxes and penalties would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that
pursuant to the terms of its Contract of Work, it is only required to pay value
added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT
Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the applicable government
authorities to resolve this matter.
     
    In
December 2008, our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru was notified by Peruvian
revenue authorities of their intent to assess mining royalties related to
minerals processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator. In August 2009, Cerro Verde
received a formal assessment in the amount of approximately $50 million in
connection with its alleged obligations for mining royalties and fines for the
period from October 2006 to December 2007. Cerro Verde is challenging this
assessment as it believes that royalty obligations with respect to all minerals
extracted are governed by its existing stability agreement, regardless of the
processing method applied after extraction, and believes that it owes no
royalties with respect to minerals processed through its concentrator. We are
working cooperatively with the Peruvian authorities to resolve this
matter.
    
    Because
our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant
operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by
Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties.
    
    Indonesia
has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist
movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In
particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the
province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have
sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted
regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner
in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and
economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua,
are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there
have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly
publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social,
economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely
affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our
activities.
    
    Maintaining
a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us
because our mining operations there are among Indonesia’s most significant
business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the
Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesia’s
economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the
number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of
criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the
target of protests and occasional violence.
    
    Since
July 2009, there has been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading
to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex (including
an incident in January 2010). In connection with these incidents, there have
been three fatalities (including one PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security
contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian
government has responded with additional security forces and has expressed a
strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and of our operations.
The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken
precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys.
Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however,
prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at
the mine. In response to these events, PT Freeport Indonesia is currently
reviewing security plans with the Indonesian authorities.
    
    Grasberg
operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four-day period from April
18, 2007 to April 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers
regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a
framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg returned to normal
operations. The impacts to production were not significant. Illegal miners have
continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from
the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesia’s government-approved tailings
management area. The illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the
area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them
away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the
road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia
temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary
measure.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        53
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    We cannot
predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our
Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries
that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other
disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect
our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this
time.
    
    We
do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term
of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires.
    
    All of
our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg deposit,
are located in Block A. The initial term of our Contract of Work covering these
ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term for two
successive 10-year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian
government, which under our Contract of Work cannot be withheld or delayed
unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be
recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two
10-year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our
operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year
extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the
current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the
Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we
expect to mine approximately 33 percent of aggregate proven and probable
recoverable ore at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 39 percent
of PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of recoverable copper reserves and
approximately 52 percent of its share of recoverable gold
reserves.
    
    In 2008,
Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system
as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia.
In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008
mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of
work.  The regulations provide that contracts of work will
continue to be honored until their expiration.
However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the
new law to any extension periods of contracts of work even though our Contract
of Work provides for two ten-year extension periods under the existing terms of
the Contract of Work. 
     
    Our
Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply
with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit
to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we
have an interest were entered into under Indonesia’s 1967 Foreign Capital
Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection
against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the
Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which
include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the
satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health
requirements.
    
    Certain
forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and
regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established
under our Contract of Work. Although our Contract of Work grants to PT Freeport
Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the Contract of
Work, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions
on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating
requirements.
    
    At times,
certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the
validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May
1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years),
including PT Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work, which was signed in December
1991. We cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the
Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require
that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international
arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we
face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or
arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the
additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or
arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory.
    
    Indonesian
government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our
compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of
the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team
for “Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT-FI Contract of Work (COW)”
to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working
groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering
production, state revenues, community development, environmental 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        54
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    issues
and security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The
joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we
comply with PT Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work in all material respects,
we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. Separately,
the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT
Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and
held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups
to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work.
    
    Any
suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the
consent of the Indonesian government.
    
    Our
Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required
activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written
request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval
of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a
suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our
activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default.
Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other
than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such
continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under
the Contract of Work.
    
    We
suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years
because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a
possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest
areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining
in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the
Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under
the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian
legislation permits open-pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B area,
subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements
and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in
certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A.
    
    Our
Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in the Katanga province of the DRC,
and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in
the DRC.
    
    During
2009, we completed construction activities for the initial Tenke Fungurume
development project, which is located in the DRC. Since 1960, the DRC has
undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial
crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy
towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification
of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit
renewals or expropriation of assets. Our ability to continue mining operations
and future development is currently subject to an ongoing review of our
mining convention which was part of a review of all mining contracts by the
Ministry of Mines (Ministry) in the DRC, the outcome of which cannot be
predicted. We received notification on February 20, 2008, that the Ministry
wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. We
believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated
transparently and are legally binding. However, we cannot predict whether the
Government of the DRC will respect our contract rights.
    
    In July
2009, Tenke Fungurume was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC
authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in
connection with the securing of labor and immigration authorizations and the
payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government
officials and three Tenke Fungurume employees were arrested. In October 2009,
the three Tenke Fungurume employees were tried and acquitted. One government
official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five
years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney
General of the DRC has filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, the
implications of which are not yet clear.
    
    In July
2009, Tenke Fungurume entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax
authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of
fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors,
including short-term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period
from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, Tenke Fungurume paid
approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with
obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short-term workers on a
timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and Tenke Fungurume
continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the tax authorities to
establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention
and local law.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        55
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Other
political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control
and could adversely affect our business include:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              political
      risks associated with the relatively recent establishment of the present
      government;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              cancellation
      or renegotiation of mining contracts by the
  government;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              legal
      and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and
      bribery;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              royalty
      and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including
      retroactive claims;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              security
      risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the
      northeastern provinces of the DRC;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              risk
      of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property;
      and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              risk
      of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities,
      insurrection and terrorism.
            
          
    
    
    Consequently,
our Tenke Fungurume mining operations and future development projects may be
substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could
adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.
    
    Terrorist
attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the
potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created
economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect
our business.
    
    On July
17, 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and
Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that are reported to have killed nine
people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian-based executives were
injured in the incident.
    
    On July
8, 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading
to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex and
vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more
information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg mining
complex, see the risk factor “Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua,
Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may
continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social
uncertainties” above.
    
    On August
31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a
group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town
where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesia’s personnel reside. The assailants
shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our
school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport
Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the
incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational
commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006,
Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational
commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were
announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a
life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack.
    
    On
October 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of
Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian
authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those
arrested have been tried and convicted. On August 5, 2003, 12 people were
killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW
Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. On September 9, 2004, 11 people were
killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian
embassy in Jakarta. On October 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19
people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist
organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005,
Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of
other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and
milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport
Indonesia’s corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months
following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the
Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been
anti-American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by
radical Islamic activists.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        56
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    No
assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence
will not occur. If there were to be additional violence, it could materially and
adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this
time.
    
    Other
risks
    
    If
market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories
and long-lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to
operating income that could be material.
    
    During
fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and
significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant
adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets
and goodwill for impairment.  As a result, we recorded impairment
charges totaling $16.9 billion ($12.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX
common stockholders). Additionally, the declines in copper and molybdenum prices
in late 2008 resulted in lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory charges
totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common
stockholders) in 2008. Additional LCM charges associated with molybdenum
inventories totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX
common stockholders) were recorded in first-quarter 2009. Declines in the market
price of copper, among other factors, may cause us to record additional LCM
inventory adjustments and may also require us to further write down the carrying
value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no
effect on cash flows.
    
    Unanticipated
litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.
    
    We are a
party to the litigation described in our SEC filings and a number of other
litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the
allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other
sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The
outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or
outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive
relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory
interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes
results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal
interpretation, is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our
operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and
financial condition.
    
    We
depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of
any of these employees could adversely affect our business.
    
    Our
success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior
management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult
due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry
conditions, competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the
effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel
can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior
management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business
and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from
capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be
adversely affected.
    
    Our holding company structure may
impact your ability to receive dividends.
    
    We are a
holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our
subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay
dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and
their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt
repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make
funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from
subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In
addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding
taxes upon repatriation into the U.S.
    
    In
addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make
distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of
our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances,
legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and
operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash
from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our
subsidiaries’ assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would
generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors,
including any trade creditors and preferred stockholders.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        57
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Anti-takeover
provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of
us more difficult.
    
    Anti-takeover
provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of
us more difficult. These provisions:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              authorize
      our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder
      approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each
      class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of
      outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may
      deter an acquisition of us;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              establish
      advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or
      for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder
  meetings;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              limit
      who may call stockholder meetings;
and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock
      to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to
      certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our
      common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair
      price.
            
          
    
    
    These
provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our
common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price
of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These
provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for
stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board
of directors.
    
    In
addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the
provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may
prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of,
us.
    
    These
provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to
stockholders.
    
    Item 1B