Item 1A:
Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should
carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described under this
section.
      
      PART I
      
      Item 1:  Business
      
      Overview
      
      We
manufacture and sell solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor
technology, and we design, construct and sell photovoltaic (PV) solar power
systems.
      
      In
addressing a growing global demand for PV solar electricity, we target markets
with varying approaches depending on the underlying economics, market
requirements and distribution channels. In subsidized feed-in tariff (FiT)
markets, such as Germany, we have historically sold most of our solar modules to
solar project developers, system integrators and independent power
producers. In other markets, such as the United States, the demand for
solar has been primarily driven by renewable portfolio standards requiring
regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity from
renewable energy sources such as solar power. To meet the needs of these
markets and enable balance of system cost reductions, we have developed a fully
integrated systems business that can provide low-cost turn-key utility-scale PV
system solutions for system owners and low cost electricity to utility
end-users. By building a fully integrated systems business, we believe we
are in a position to expand our business in transitional, and eventually
economically sustainable markets (in which subsidies or incentives are minimal),
which are expected to develop in areas with abundant solar resources and sizable
electricity demand, such as the United States, China, India and parts of Europe.
In the long-term, we plan on competing on an economic basis with conventional
fossil fuel based peaking power generation.
       
      In
furtherance of our goal of delivering the lowest cost of solar energy and
achieving price parity with conventional fossil-fuel based peak electricity
generation, we are continually focused on reducing PV system costs in three
primary areas: module manufacturing, Balance of System (BoS) costs (consisting
of costs of components of a solar power system other than the solar modules,
including inverters, mounting hardware, grid interconnection equipment, wiring
and other devices, and installation labor costs), and cost of capital. First,
with respect to our module manufacturing costs, our advanced technology has
allowed us to reduce our average module manufacturing costs to the lowest in the
world, based on publicly available information. In 2009, our total average
manufacturing costs were $0.87 per watt, which we believe is significantly less
than those of traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. By
continuing to improve conversion efficiency and production line throughput,
lower material cost and drive volume scale to further decrease overhead costs,
we believe that we can further reduce our manufacturing costs per watt and
maintain our cost advantage over traditional crystalline silicon solar module
manufacturers. Second, by continuing to improve conversion efficiency, leverage
volume procurement around standardized hardware platforms, and accelerate
installation time, we believe we can continue to make substantial reductions in
BoS costs, which represent over half of all costs associated with a typical
utility-scale PV solar power system. Finally, we believe that continuing to
strengthen our financial position, including our balance sheet and credit
profile, will enable us to continue to lower the cost of capital associated with
our solar power systems, thereby further enhancing the economic viability of our
projects and lowering the cost of electricity generated by solar power systems
that incorporate our modules and technology. 
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
1
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      We
are the world's largest PV solar module manufacturer and produced more than 1.1
gigawatts (GW) of solar modules in 2009, becoming the first PV company to attain
this production volume in a single year. We manufacture our solar modules on
high-throughput production lines and perform all manufacturing steps ourselves
in an automated, proprietary, continuous process. Our solar modules employ a
thin layer of semiconductor material to convert sunlight into electricity. Our
manufacturing process eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and
expensive and time consuming batch processing steps that are used to produce a
crystalline silicon solar module. Currently, we manufacture our solar modules at
our Perrysburg, Ohio, Frankfurt/Oder, Germany and Kulim, Malaysia manufacturing
facilities (with additional manufacturing facilities planned for construction in
Kulim, Malaysia and France) and conduct our research and development activities
primarily at our Perrysburg, Ohio manufacturing facility.
       
      Our
fully integrated solar power systems business includes (i) project development,
(ii) engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) services, (iii) operating
and maintenance (O&M) services, and (iv) project finance expertise, all as
described in more detail below.
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                Our
      project development group obtains land and land rights for the development
      of solar power plants incorporating our modules, negotiates long-term
      power purchase agreements (PPA) with potential purchasers of the
      electricity to be generated by those plants, manages the interconnection
      and transmission process, negotiates agreements to interconnect the plant
      to the electric grid and obtains the permits which are required prior to
      the construction of the plant, including applicable environmental and land
      use permits. Our project development portfolio and capabilities have grown
      significantly primarily as a result of our acquisition of the project
      development business of OptiSolar Inc. in April 2009, and our acquisition
      of certain assets from Edison Mission Group’s utility-scale solar project
      development pipeline in January 2010. We sell developed projects or
      projects under development to system operators who wish to own generating
      facilities, such as utilities, or to investors who are looking for
      long-term investment vehicles that are expected to generate consistent
      returns.
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                We
      provide EPC services to projects developed by our project development
      business, projects developed by independent solar power project
      developers, and directly to system owners such as utilities. The
      procurement component of our EPC services includes deployment of our
      modules as well as balance of system components that we procure from third
      parties. 
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                For
      solar power plants which we have developed and built, we may provide
      ongoing O&M services to the system owner under long-term service
      agreements. These O&M services may include overseeing the day-to-day
      operation of the system, safety and security, maximizing energy
      production, and management of reliability, site services, power purchase
      agreement and other contractual compliance, environmental and permit
      compliance, regulatory requirements, recordkeeping, forecasting, warranty,
      preventative and scheduled maintenance, and spare parts inventory and may
      also include certain additional guarantees relating to the
      project.
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                Our
      project finance group is primarily responsible for negotiating and
      executing the sale of utility-scale power plant systems
      incorporating our modules which allows us to optimize the value of
      our project development portfolio. This group is experienced
      in structuring non-recourse project debt financing in the bank
      loan market and institutional debt capital markets and raising
      project equity capital from tax oriented and strategic industry equity
      investors.
              
            
      
      
      We
believe that combining our reliable, low cost module manufacturing capability
with our systems business enables us to more rapidly reduce the price of solar
electricity, to accelerate the adoption of our technology in large scale systems
and to further our mission to create enduring value by enabling a world powered
by clean, affordable solar electricity.
      
      Segment
Information
       
              
We operate our business in two segments. Our components segment designs,
manufactures and sells solar modules to solar project developers and system
integrators. Through our systems segment, we have the capability to provide a
complete PV solar power system for utility-scale or large commercial systems,
which includes project development, EPC, O&M services and, when required,
project finance. We view the sale of solar modules from the components segment
as the core driver of our profitability, return on net assets and cash
throughput, and we view our systems segment as an enabler to drive module
throughput.
      
      As
of December 26, 2009, our systems segment had not met the quantitative criteria
for disclosure as a separate reporting segment. See also Note 22.
“Segment and Geographic Information” to our consolidated financial statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
2
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Components
Business
      
      Our
components segment, which is our principal business, involves the design,
manufacture and sale of solar modules which convert sunlight to
electricity.
       
       Solar Modules
      
      Each
solar module is approximately 2ft × 4ft (60cm × 120cm) and had an average rated
power of approximately 75 watts, 73 watts, and 70 watts for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Our solar module is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film
structure that uses cadmium telluride as the absorption layer and cadmium
sulfide as the window layer. Cadmium telluride has absorption properties that
are highly matched to the solar spectrum and has the potential to deliver
competitive conversion efficiencies using only about 1% of the semiconductor
material used by traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. Our thin film
technology also has relatively high energy performance in low light and high
temperature environments compared with traditional crystalline silicon solar
modules.
      
       Manufacturing
Process
      
      We
have integrated our manufacturing processes into a continuous, integrated
production line with the following three stages: the “deposition” stage, the
“cell definition” stage, and the “assembly and test” stage. In the deposition
stage, panels of treated glass are robotically loaded onto the production line
where they are cleaned, heated and coated with a layer of cadmium sulfide
followed by a layer of cadmium telluride using our proprietary vapor transport
deposition technology, after which the semiconductor-coated plates are cooled
rapidly to increase strength. In our cell definition stage, we use high speed
lasers to transform the large single semiconductor-coated plate into a series of
interconnected cells that deliver the desired current and voltage output. Our
proprietary laser scribing technology is capable of accomplishing accurate and
complex scribes at high speeds. Finally, in the assembly and test stage, we
apply busbars, laminate, a rear glass cover sheet and termination wires, seal
the joint box and subject each solar module to a solar simulator and current
leakage test. The final assembly stage is the only stage in our production line
that requires manual processing.
      
      Our
manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio, Frankfurt/Oder, Germany and Kulim,
Malaysia have each received both an ISO 9001:2000 quality system certification
and ISO 14001:2004 environmental system certification. We anticipate that our
additional manufacturing facilities, planned for construction in France and
Kulim, Malaysia, will also obtain these certifications in 2011. During 2009, our
Perrysburg facility also received the Occupational Health and Safety Standards
(OHSAS) 18001 certification, an international occupational health and safety
management system specification.
      
      Research, Development and
Engineering
      
      We
continue to devote a substantial amount of resources to research and development
with the primary objective of lowering the per watt cost of electricity
generated by photovoltaic systems using our solar modules. Within our
components business, we focus our research and development activities on, among
other areas, continuing to increase the conversion efficiency of our solar
modules and improving manufacturing efficiencies (including volume ramp,
throughput improvement and material cost reduction). We believe the most
promising ways of increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules
include maximizing the number of photons that reach the absorption layer of the
semiconductor material to facilitate conversion into electrons, thereby
maximizing the number of electrons that reach the surface of the semiconductor
and minimizing the electrical losses between the semiconductor layer and the
back metal conductor.
      
      In the course of our research and
development activities, we continuously explore and research new technologies in
our efforts to sustain competitive differentiation in our modules. We typically
qualify process and product improvements for full production at our Ohio plant
and then use our “Copy Smart” process to propagate them to our other production
lines. We believe that this systematic approach to research and development will
provide continuous improvements and ensure uniform adoption across our
production lines. In addition, our production lines are replicas of each other
using our “Copy Smart” process, and as a result, a process or production
improvement on one line can be rapidly deployed to other production
lines.
       
              
Customers
                 
      With
respect to our components business, during 2009,  we sold most of our
solar modules to solar project developers and system integrators headquartered
in Germany, France, Spain and Italy. Our customers typically develop, construct,
own and operate solar power plants or sell turnkey solar power plants to
end-users that include owners of land, owners of agricultural buildings, owners
of commercial warehouses, offices and industrial buildings, public agencies,
municipal government authorities, utility companies and financial investors that
desire to own large scale solar power plant projects.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
3
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      As
of December 26, 2009, we had long-term supply contracts for the sale of solar
modules with fourteen principal customers (Long-Term Supply Contracts)
headquartered throughout the European Union. We also have a five-year agreement
with a solar power system project developer and system integrator in the United
States, which is a related party. Together, these contracts account for a
significant portion of our planned module production over the period from 2010
through 2013 and therefore will significantly affect our overall financial
performance. We have in the past amended pricing and other terms in our
Long-Term Supply Contracts in order to remain competitive, as described below,
and we may decide in the future to further amend such contracts in order to
address the highly competitive environment. In addition, we enter into module
sale agreements or standard purchase orders with customers for specific
projects.
       
      During
the first quarter of 2009, we amended our Long-Term Supply Contracts with
certain customers to further reduce the sales price per watt under these
contracts in 2009 and 2010 in exchange for increases in the volume of solar
modules to be delivered under the contracts. We also extended the payment terms
for certain customers under these contracts from net 10 days to net 45 days to
increase liquidity in our sales channel and to reflect longer module shipment
times from our manufacturing plants in Malaysia. During the third quarter of
2009, we amended our Long-Term Supply Contracts with certain of our customers to
implement a program which extends a price rebate to certain of these customers
for solar modules purchased from us and installed in Germany. The intent of this
program is to enable our customers to successfully compete in our core segments
in Germany. The rebate program applies a specified rebate rate to solar modules
sold for solar power projects in Germany at the beginning of each quarter for
the upcoming quarter. The rebate program is subject to periodic review and we
adjust the rebate rate quarterly upward or downward as appropriate. The rebate
period commenced during the third quarter of 2009 and terminates at the end of
the fourth quarter of 2010. Customers need to meet certain requirements in order
to be eligible for and benefit from this program.
      
      During
2009, principal customers of our components business were Blitzstrom GmbH, EDF
EN Development, Gehrlicher Solar AG, Juwi Solar GmbH, and Phoenix Solar AG.
During 2009, each of these five customers individually accounted for between 10%
and 19% of our component segment’s net sales. All of our other customers
individually accounted for less than 10% of our net sales during 2009. The loss
of any of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. As
we expand our manufacturing capacity, we are seeking to develop additional
customer relationships in other markets and regions, which would reduce our
customer and geographic concentration and dependence.
      
      While
our Long-Term Supply Contracts have certain firm purchase commitments, these
contracts are subject to amendments made by us or requested by our customers,
such as the above mentioned amendments entered into during 2009. These
amendments decreased the expected revenue under our Long-Term Supply Contracts
during 2009. In addition, our Long-Term Supply Contracts are substantially
denominated in euros and therefore are subject to exchange rate fluctuations
between the euro and U.S. dollar. The strengthening of the euro compared to the
U.S. dollar during 2009 partially offset the decrease in the expected revenue
under our Long-Term Contracts resulting from the 2009 amendments.
      
      As
of December 26, 2009, the Long-Term Supply Contracts in the aggregate allowed
for approximately $3.8 billion (3.3 billion denominated in euro at an
assumed exchange rate of $1.15/€1.00 and 0.2 billion denominated in USD) in
sales from 2010 to 2013. As of December 27, 2008, the Long-Term Supply Contracts
in the aggregate allowed for approximately $5.8 billion (4.9 billion
denominated in euro at an assumed exchange rate of $1.15/€1.00 and
0.2 billion denominated in USD) in sales from 2009 to 2013. The
above-referenced dollar amounts relating to the Long-Term Supply Contracts
declined from 2008 to 2009, primarily due to revenue recognized for contracted
volumes sold in 2009, module pricing adjustments, the impact of the rebate
program implemented in 2009 as described above, and pre-set price reductions
under the terms of the Long-Term Supply Contracts.
      
      We
anticipate that approximately 55% of the aggregate contracted revenue under the
Long-Term Supply Contracts as of December 26, 2009, will not be fulfilled in
2010 because they are associated with deliveries to be made in 2011 and later
periods. We believe that the aggregate dollar amount associated with the
Long-Term Supply Contracts at any particular date is not necessarily a
meaningful indicator of future revenue for any particular period because the
fulfillment of such amount is subject to a variety of factors, including the
factors described above.
      
      Competition
      
      The
renewable energy, solar energy and solar module sectors are highly competitive
and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within
their markets and compete within the larger electric power industry. We expect
to face continued competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced
margins or loss of market share. With respect to our components business, we
believe that our main sources of competition are crystalline silicon solar
module manufacturers, silicon and non-silicon based thin film module
manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated
photovoltaic technologies. Among photovoltaic module and cell manufacturers, the
principal methods of competition are price per watt, production capacity,
conversion efficiency, reliability, warranty terms and finance ability. At
December 26, 2009, the global photovoltaic industry consisted of more than 150
manufacturers of solar cells and modules.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
4
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      In
addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the photovoltaic industry
that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from
semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor equipment manufacturers or their
customers, several of which have already announced their intention to start
production of photovoltaic cells, solar modules or turnkey production lines.
Some of these competitors may be part of larger corporations and have greater
financial resources and greater brand name recognition than we do and may, as a
result, be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the economy
as a whole.
      
      We
also face competition from companies that currently offer or are developing
other renewable energy technologies (including wind, hydropower, geothermal,
biomass and tidal technologies) and other power generation sources that burn
conventional fossil fuels.
      
      Raw
Materials
      
      Our
manufacturing process uses approximately 20 types of raw materials and
components to construct a complete solar module. One critical raw material in
our production process is cadmium telluride. Of the other raw materials and
components, the following eight are also critical to our manufacturing process:
front glass coated with thermal conductive oxide, cadmium sulfide, photo resist,
laminate, tempered back glass, cord plate/cord plate cap, lead wire and solar
connectors. Before we use these materials and components in our manufacturing
process, a supplier must undergo a qualification process that can last up to
12 months, depending on the type of raw material or component. Although we
continually evaluate new suppliers and currently are qualifying several new
suppliers, a few of our critical materials or components are sole sourced and
most others are supplied by a limited number of suppliers.
      
      Collection
and Recycling Program
      
      Consistent
with the environmental philosophy of extended producer responsibility, we have
established the solar industry's first comprehensive, prefunded module
collection and recycling program. The program is designed to maximize the
recovery of valuable materials for use in new modules or other new products and
minimize the environmental impacts associated with our modules at the end of
their useful life. Approximately 90% of each collected First Solar module is
recycled into new products, including new modules. End-users can request
collection and recycling of their solar modules by us at any time at no cost. We
pre-fund the estimated collection and recycling cost at the time of sale,
assuming for this purpose a minimum service life of approximately 25 years for
our solar modules. In addition to achieving substantial environmental benefits,
our solar module collection and recycling program may provide us the opportunity
to resell or redistribute working modules or recover certain raw materials and
components for reuse in our manufacturing process. We currently have recycling
facilities operating at each manufacturing facility (for manufacturing scrap,
warranty returns and modules collected at the end of their useful life) that
produce glass suitable for use in the production of new glass products and
extract metals that will be further processed by a third party supplier to
produce semiconductor materials for reuse in our solar modules.
      
      To
ensure that the pre-funded amounts are available regardless of our financial
status in the future, a trust structure has been established; funds are put into
custodial accounts in the name of a trustee. Only the trustee can distribute
funds from the custodial accounts and these funds cannot be accessed for any
purpose other than for administering module collection and recycling, either by
us or a third party executing the collection and recycling services. To provide
further assurance that sufficient funds will be available, our module collection
and recycling program, including the financing arrangement, is audited
periodically by an independent third-party auditor.
       
       Solar Module
Warranty
      
      We
provide a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship under
normal use and service conditions for five years following delivery to the
owners of our solar modules. We also warrant to the owners of our solar modules
that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will
produce at least 90% of their power output rating during the first 10 years
following their installation and at least 80% of their power output rating
during the following 15 years. In resolving claims under both the defects
and power output warranties, we have the option of either repairing or replacing
the covered solar module or, under the power output warranty, providing
additional solar modules to remedy the power shortfall. Our warranties are
automatically transferred from the original purchasers of our solar modules to
subsequent purchasers. As of December 26, 2009, our accrued warranty
liability was $22.6 million, of which $8.2 million was classified as
current and $14.4 million was classified as noncurrent.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
5
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Systems
Business
      
      Through
our fully integrated systems business, we provide a complete PV solar power
system solution, which includes project development, EPC services, O&M
services and, when required, project finance.
      
      Our
systems business has grown over the past several years through a combination of
business acquisitions and organic growth. On November 30, 2007, we
completed the acquisition of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC, a privately held
company which provided EPC services for commercial solar power projects in the
United States. On April 3, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the project
development business of OptiSolar Inc., which included a multi-gigawatt project
pipeline. In January 2010, we completed the acquisition of certain assets from
Edison Mission Group's solar project development pipeline consisting of
utility-scale solar projects located primarily on private land in California and
the Southwest.
      
      Project
Development
      
      Our
systems business is dependent upon successful completion of project development
activities including: site selection and acquisition, obtaining in a timely
manner the requisite interconnection and transmission studies, environmental and
land use permits, maintaining effective site control, and entering into a power
purchase agreement with an off-taker of the power to be generated by the
project. These activities culminate in receiving the right to construct and
operate a solar power system. Power purchase agreements define the price and
terms the utility customer will pay for power produced from a
project. Entering into a power purchase agreement generally provides the
underlying economics needed to advance the construction, finance and eventual
sale of the project to the long-term site owner and power producer subject to
obtaining all necessary permits. Depending primarily on the location and other
site attributes, the development cycle can range from one to five years or
longer in some circumstances. We may be required to spend significant sums for
preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can
determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of
being built. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals,
we may be forced to incur additional costs and/or the right of the off-taker
under the power purchase agreement to terminate may be triggered.
      
      Our
project development activities are currently focused on markets in North
America, Europe and Asia.
      
      In
North America, we have entered into approximately 1.25GW of power purchase
agreements with utilities in the southwestern U.S. and have a pipeline of
approximately 150 megawatts (MW) of projects in Canada governed under
Ontario’s Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP), for a total pipeline
of 1.4GW of projects in North America that we expect to develop between 2010 and
2014.
      
      In
Europe, we are engaged in project development activities with respect to certain
projects in France and Italy that we acquired as part of the OptiSolar pipeline,
and we are actively evaluating additional project opportunities in
Europe.
      
      In
Asia, our project development activities include our initiatives in China. In
September 2009, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ordos,
China City Government outlining a long-term strategic relationship between the
parties pursuant to which we would, through an appropriate business model,
develop and construct a 2000MW photovoltaic power plant located within the Ordos
New Energy Industry Demonstration Zone in China. In November 2009, we entered
into a Cooperation Framework Agreement with the Ordos government outlining
additional project details, timing and local support for the 2000MW power
plant.  The Memorandum of Understanding and the Corporation Framework
Agreements set forth the agreement in principle of the parties concerning the
project and related activities, and final agreement between the parties is
subject to the negotiation and execution of definitive agreements among the
parties.
      
      In
the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our 20MW solar project in Sarnia, Ontario,
Canada to Enbridge Inc. The power output of the Sarnia facility will be sold to
the Ontario Power Authority pursuant to a 20-year power purchase agreement under
the terms of the Ontario RESOP program. Later in the fourth quarter of 2009, we
entered into an agreement with Enbridge Inc. to expand the Sarnia facility from
20MW to 80MW. When completed later in 2010, the Sarnia facility is expected to
be the largest PV solar facility in North America. In the fourth quarter of
2009, we also sold our 21MW solar project in Blythe, California to NRG Energy,
Inc. Electricity generated by the Blythe facility, which is currently
California’s largest PV solar generation facility, is being sold to Southern
California Edison under a 20-year power purchase agreement.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
6
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Customers
      
      With
respect to our systems business, our customers consist of investor owned
utilities, independent power developers and producers, commercial and industrial
companies, and other system owners who purchase completed solar power plants,
EPC services and/or operation and maintenance services from us.
      
      Competition
      
      With
respect to our systems business, we face competition from other providers of
renewable energy solutions, including developers of photovoltaic, solar thermal
and concentrated solar power systems and developers of other forms of renewable
energy projects, including wind, hydropower, geothermal, biomass and tidal
projects. To the extent other solar module manufacturers become more vertically
integrated, we expect to face increased competition from such companies as well.
We also face competition from other EPC companies and joint ventures between EPC
companies and solar companies.
      
      Sales
and Marketing
      
      Historically,
the majority of our module sales have been for grid-connected ground or
commercial roof mounted solar power systems in Germany and other European Union
countries with feed-in tariff subsidies. These feed-in tariff subsidies have
been critical for the development of the solar industry because they provided
the demand visibility required for module manufacturers and other participants
in the solar value chain to reduce costs and drive scale. In 2007, we began to
identify and target certain key transition markets, such as the United States,
that had the potential to bridge the gap from the existing feed-in tariff
markets to sustainable markets. Within these transition markets, our strategy is
to advocate for market structures and policies that drive demand for solar power
systems and to identify and break constraints to the successful migration to
sustainable solar markets. In furtherance of this objective, we have
developed a fully integrated systems business to increase module throughput,
drive cost reduction across the value chain, identify and break constraints to
sustainable markets and to deliver the most compelling solutions to our
customers and end- users. 
      
      Economic
Incentives
      
      Government
subsidies, economic incentives and other support for solar electricity
generation generally include feed-in tariffs, net metering programs, renewable
portfolio standards, tax incentives, loan guarantees, grants, rebates, low
interest loans and grid access initiatives.
      
      Under
a feed-in tariff subsidy, the government sets prices that regulated utilities
are required to pay for renewable electricity generated by end-users. The prices
are set above market rates and may differ based on system size or application.
Net metering programs enable end-users to sell excess solar electricity to their
local utility in exchange for a credit against their utility bills. The policies
governing net metering vary by state and utility. Some utilities pay the
end-user upfront, while others credit the end-user’s bill.
      
      Under
a renewable portfolio standard (RPS), the government requires regulated
utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity in the form of
renewable electricity. Some programs further specify that a portion of the
renewable energy quota must be from solar electricity, while others provide no
specific technology requirement for renewable electricity generation. RPS-type
mechanisms have been adopted in a majority of U.S. states. Regulations vary
from state to state, and currently there is no federal RPS mandate. The state of
California’s RPS goal of 33% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020 is
currently the most significant RPS program in the United States in magnitude,
and it is contributing to the expansion of the utility-scale solar systems
market in that state.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
7
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Tax
incentive programs exist in the United States at both the federal and state
level and can take the form of investment and production tax credits,
accelerated depreciation and sales and property tax exemptions. At the federal
level, investment tax credits for business and residential solar systems have
gone through several cycles of enactment and expiration since the 1980’s. In
October 2008, the United States Congress extended the 30% federal investment tax
credit (ITC) for both residential and commercial solar installations for eight
years, through December 31, 2016. The ITC is a primary economic driver of
solar installations in the United States. Its extension through 2016 has
contributed to greater medium term demand visibility in the U.S.; however, its
expiration at the end of 2016 (unless extended) underscores the need for the
levelized cost of electricity from solar systems to continue to decline toward
grid parity. In February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
of 2009 (ARRA) was signed into law. In addition to adopting certain fiscal
stimulus measures that could benefit on-grid solar electricity applications,
ARRA created a new program, through the Department of the Treasury, which
provides cash grants equal to 30% of the cost of the system for solar
installations that are placed into service during 2009 and 2010 and for certain
solar installations for which construction begins prior to December 31,
2010. This cash grant is available in lieu of receiving the 30% federal
investment tax credit. The intent of this program was to ensure that investors
who had historically supported the renewable energy programs would not be
constrained from investing in these transactions by tax losses they may have
suffered during the recent credit crisis. Other measures adopted by ARRA that
could benefit on-grid solar electricity generation include the following:
(1) a Department of Energy loan guarantee program for renewable energy
projects, renewable energy manufacturing facilities and electric power
transmission projects and (2) a 50% bonus depreciation for solar
installations placed in service during 2009. Various legislation has been
proposed to extend and slightly modify the ITC incentives to continue to ensure
short-term investor tax positions do not limit future investment in renewable
energy projects. In addition, legislation is being proposed which could extend
the bonus depreciation benefit for projects completed in 2010. However,
enactment of the extension or enhancement of such incentives is highly
uncertain.
      
      Rebate
programs for solar installations in California and several other states have
increased the quantity of solar energy from distributed photovoltaic systems
(typically smaller non-utility scale PV systems co-located with residential or
commercial rooftop end-users) and have contributed to demand for PV solar
modules and systems. 
      
      Regulations
and policies relating to electricity pricing and interconnection also stimulate
demand for distributed generation from photovoltaic systems. PV systems generate
most of their electricity during mid-day and the early afternoon hours when the
demand for and cost of electricity is highest. As a result, electricity
generated by PV systems mainly competes with expensive peak hour electricity,
rather than the lower average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak
hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require PV
systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of
electricity.
      
      In
Europe, renewable energy targets in conjunction with feed-in tariffs
have contributed to the growth in PV solar markets. Renewable energy
targets prescribe how much energy consumption must come from renewable
sources, while FiT policies are intended to support new supply development
by providing investor certainty.  A 2001 European Union
(EU) directive for promoting renewable energy use in electricity generation
(Directive 2001/77/EC) had set varying national indicative targets for
renewable energy production from individual member states. A 2009 EU directive
on renewable energy (Directive 2009/28/EC), which replaces the 2001
directive, sets varying targets for all EU member states in support of the
directive’s goal of a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the EU by
2020 and requires national action plans that establish pathways for the
development of renewable energy sources. The following is a description of FiT
policies adopted in certain critical EU markets in support of renewable
energy targets.
      
      Currently,
Germany, which accounted for approximately 65% of our 2009 net sales, is the
most significant market for our modules, and the recent proposed changes to
German feed-in tariffs are likely to affect our results of operations. The
German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG, was last modified by the German
government in 2008 with effect on January 1, 2009. At that time, feed-in tariffs
were significantly reduced from earlier levels. Further, under the current
legislation, Germany feed-in tariffs declined 9% for roof mounted applications
and 11% for ground mounted applications on January 1, 2010 and will decline on
January 1, 2011 a further 8% to 10% (based on the volume of PV modules deployed
in Germany during the 12 months ending on September 30, 2010 and the type of PV
system). This compares to an annual decline of between 5% and 6.5% under the
prior legislation. The next review of feed-in tariffs for all types of renewable
energy was scheduled for 2012. However, following the 2009 election of a new
center-right-liberal government in Germany, a further reduction in the PV
feed-in tariff is currently under discussion and will most likely come into
effect in the second or third quarter of 2010. Such a reduction in the feed-in
tariff, including any potential further reductions, could result in a
significant decline in demand and price levels for photovoltaic products in
Germany, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.
       
      In
France, which accounted for approximately 12% of our 2009 net sales and where we
have announced plans to build a two-line manufacturing plant, the government
amended its feed-in tariff on January 12, 2010. The new decree became effective
January 14, 2010 and does not have an expiry date but can be amended at any
time. The new feed-in tariff provides a lower rate than the prior feed-in tariff
for all applications while introducing, among other things, a departmental bonus
which makes free field projects in the northern regions of France more
attractive. In addition, the inflation index that increases the feed-in tariff
received by a PV project after its first year of operation was also reduced. The
current feed-in tariff will have a 10% annual digression starting on January 1,
2012.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
8
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      In
Italy, which accounted for approximately 6% of our 2009 net sales, the current
legislation provides that the existing feed-in tariff will be in effect until
the expiration of a 14 month transition period that will begin once 1.2GW of
photovoltaic systems are installed under the existing feed-in tariff. Any
photovoltaic system that is interconnected before the expiration of the
transition period will also receive the feed-in tariff currently in effect. It
is expected that the 1.2GW threshold will be reached in 2010. It is further
expected that the Italian government will propose and enact a new reduced
feed-in tariff before the end of 2010. 
       
      In
Spain, which accounted for approximately 3% of our 2009 net sales, the
government published the feed-in tariff currently in effect for PV systems in
September 2008. This feed-in tariff introduced a mechanism that requires a
PV system to be registered in a national registry in order to obtain the Spanish
feed-in tariff. Critically, under the legislation, only a certain number of MWs
of PV systems so registered are granted a feed-in tariff each quarter. Other PV
systems applying for a feed-in tariff remain in a queue and will be awarded a
feed-in tariff in accordance with their place in the queue. For 2010 and 2011,
the legislation limits the number of MW of PV systems that are awarded a feed-in
tariff to 560MW and 500MW, respectively. The current legislation is
scheduled to be reviewed by January 1, 2012.
      
      In
Ontario, Canada, a new feed-in tariff program was introduced in September 2009
and replaced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP) as the primary
subsidy program for future renewable energy projects. In order to participate in
the Ontario feed-in tariff program, certain provisions relating to minimum
required domestic content and land use restrictions for solar installations must
be satisfied. The new domestic content and land restriction rules do not apply
to our Sarnia solar projects and the other projects governed by RESOP contracts
that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of the solar power project
development business of OptiSolar Inc. in April 2009. However, PV solar power
systems incorporating our modules would not satisfy the domestic content
requirement under the new feed-in tariff program currently in
effect.
      
      In
Australia, which accounted for approximately 1% of our 2009 net sales, the solar
industry is driven by several regulatory initiatives that support the
installation of solar PV modules in both rooftop and free-field applications,
including the nationwide Renewable Energy Target Scheme that has set a renewable
energy goal for Australia of 20% by 2020. In July 2009, the Solar Homes and
Communities Plan, which previously provided the primary incentive for rooftop
installations, was replaced with the less lucrative Solar Credits
Scheme. 
      
      In
China, governmental authorities have not adopted a feed-in tariff policy and
currently award solar projects through either a project tendering process or
bi-lateral negotiations. We did not have sales in China in 2009; however, in
September 2009, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ordos,
China City Government relating to the construction of a 2GW PV power plant
located within the Ordos New Energy Industry Demonstration Zone in China. See
“Item 1: Business — Segment Information —Systems Business — Project
Development.”
      
      In
2009, India announced its National Solar Mission, which includes a goal of
installing 20GW of solar by 2022. India is expected to announce a feed-in tariff
for the first phase of the National Solar Mission in 2010. We did not have
any sales in India in 2009.
      
      For
more information about risks related to economic incentives, please see
“Item 1A: Risk Factors — Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or
expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
on-grid solar electricity applications, including the anticipated feed-in tariff
reductions in Germany and certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or
price levels for our solar modules, limit our growth or lead to a reduction in
our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.”
      
      Intellectual
Property
      
      Our success depends, in part, on our
ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our
business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely
primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as
associate and third party confidentiality agreements, to safeguard our
intellectual property. As of December 26, 2009, we held 22 patents in the
United States, which will expire at various times between 2012 and 2026, and had
96 patent applications pending. We also held 28 patents and had over 100 patent
applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. Our patent applications and any
future patent applications might not result in a patent being issued with the
scope of the claims we seek, or at all, and any patents we may receive may be
challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. We continually assess
appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our
technology, designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide
significant competitive advantages.
      
      As
of December 26, 2009, we used two trademarks, “First Solar” and “First
Solar and Design,” in the United States and other
countries.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
9
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      With
respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which
patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on, among other things, trade secret
protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe
that many elements of our photovoltaic manufacturing process, including our
unique materials sourcing, involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that
are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical
processes, equipment designs, algorithms and procedures. We have taken security
measures to protect these elements. All of our research and development
personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information
agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection
issues and require our associates to assign to us all of the inventions, designs
and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us. We also
require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality
agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our modules, technology
or business plans.
      
      We
have not been subject to any material intellectual property claims.
      
      Environmental
Matters
      
      Our
manufacturing operations include the use, handling, storage, transportation,
generation and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to various
federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the
protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of
pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous
materials and wastes, occupational health and safety, and the cleanup of
contaminated sites. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including
cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and costs arising from
third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations
of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental
permits required at our facilities. We believe we are currently in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental requirements and do not expect to incur
material capital expenditures for environmental controls in the foreseeable
future. However, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement
policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations or the
discovery of unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and/or financial condition. See “Item 1A: Risk Factors — Environmental
obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our
financial condition, cash flows and profitability.”
      
      Corporate
History
      
      In
February 2006 we were incorporated as a Delaware corporation. Our common stock
has been listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “FSLR” since
our initial public offering in November 2006. In October 2009, our common stock
was added to the S&P 500 Index, making First Solar the first, and currently
only, pure-play renewable energy company in the index.
      
      Associates
      
      As
of February 12, 2010, we had approximately 4,700 associates (our term for full
and part-time employees), including approximately 3,900 in manufacturing. The
remainder of our associates are in research and development, sales and marketing
and general and administrative positions, including associates who are engaged
in or support our systems business. None of our associates are currently
represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As
we expand domestically and internationally, however, we may encounter associates
who desire union representation or a collective bargaining agreement. We believe
that our relations with our associates are good.
      
      Information
About Geographic Areas
      
      We
have significant marketing, distribution and manufacturing operations both
within and outside the United States. Currently, we manufacture our solar
modules at our Perrysburg, Ohio, Frankfurt/Oder, Germany and Kulim, Malaysia
manufacturing facilities (with additional manufacturing facilities planned for
construction in Kulim, Malaysia and France beginning in 2010). In 2009, 86% of
our net sales were generated from customers headquartered in the European Union.
We are in the process of expanding our operations, particularly with respect to
our systems business, to numerous countries worldwide, including other European
and Asian countries and Australia. As a result, we will be subject to the legal,
tax, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of
many jurisdictions. The international nature of our operations subject us to a
number of risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, adverse changes in
foreign laws or regulatory requirements, and tariffs, taxes and other trade
restrictions. See “Item 1A: Risk Factors — Our substantial
international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable
political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries.” See also
Note 22. “Segment and Geographical Information” to our consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
information about our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region for
the years ended December 26, 2009, December 27, 2008 and
December 29, 2007. See also “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for other information about
our operations and activities in various geographic regions.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
10
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Available
Information
      
      We
maintain a website at http://www.firstsolar.com.
We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or
furnish them to, the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our
website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We use our website as
one means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with
our disclosure obligations under the SEC’s Regulation FD. Such disclosures will
typically be included within the Investor Relations section of our website
(http://investor.firstsolar.com).
Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our website, in addition
to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and
webcasts.
      
      The
public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C.
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an
Internet website that contains reports and other information regarding issuers,
such as First Solar, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet
website is located at http://www.sec.gov.
      
      Executive
Officers of the Registrant
      
      Our
executive officers and their ages and positions as of February 19, 2010, were as
follows:
      
      
        

              
                Name
              
               
      
              
                Age
              
               
      
              
                Position
              
            
              
                Michael
      J. Ahearn
              
               
      
              
                53
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Chairman
              
            
              
                Robert
      J. Gillette
              
               
      
              
                49
              
               
      
              
                Chief
      Executive Officer
              
            
              
                Bruce
      Sohn
              
               
      
              
                48
              
               
      
              
                President
              
            
              
                Jens
      Meyerhoff
              
               
      
              
                45
              
               
      
              
                Chief
      Financial Officer
              
            
              
                Mary
      Beth Gustafsson
              
               
      
              
                50
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
              
            
              
                TK
      Kallenbach
              
               
      
              
                50
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Marketing and Product Management
              
            
              
                David
      Eaglesham
              
               
      
              
                48
              
               
      
              
                Chief
      Technology Officer
              
            
              
                Carol
      Campbell
              
               
      
              
                58
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Human Resources
              
            
              
                James
      Zhu
              
               
      
              
                48
              
               
      
              
                Chief
      Accounting Officer
              
            
      
      
      Michael
J. Ahearn serves as Executive Chairman of First Solar and served as CEO from
August 2000 to September 2009. Prior to First Solar, he was Partner and
President of the equity investment firm, JWMA (formerly True North Partners,
L.L.C.). Prior to joining JWMA, Mr. Ahearn practiced law as a partner in the
firm of Gallagher & Kennedy. Mr. Ahearn has served on the boards of Arizona
Technology Enterprises, Arizona State University Research Park, Homeward Bound,
the Arizona Science Museum and currently serves on the board of the German
Marshall Fund of the United States. Mr. Ahearn holds a B.A. in Finance and a
J.D. from Arizona State University.
      
      Robert
J. Gillette joined First Solar in October 2009 as Chief Executive Officer. Prior
to joining First Solar, Mr. Gillette served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Honeywell Aerospace since January 2005. Honeywell Aerospace,
headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, is Honeywell International's largest business
group with current sales of more than $12 billion annually. In this role, Mr.
Gillette led Honeywell Aerospace's three main businesses—Air Transport &
Regional, Business & General Aviation, and Defense & Space—with more
than 40,000 associates at nearly 100 worldwide manufacturing and service sites.
Prior to this assignment, Mr. Gillette had served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Honeywell Transportation Systems since July 2001. Mr.
Gillette holds a bachelor's of science degree in Finance from Indiana
University.
      
      Bruce
Sohn has served as President of First Solar since March 2007. Mr. Sohn served as
a director of First Solar from July 2003 until June 2009. Prior to joining First
Solar as President, Mr. Sohn worked at Intel Corporation for 24 years.
He is a senior member of IEEE and a certified Jonah. Mr. Sohn has been a
guest lecturer at several universities, including the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Stanford University. Mr. Sohn holds a degree in Materials Science
and Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
11
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Jens
Meyerhoff joined First Solar in May 2006 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to
joining First Solar, Mr. Meyerhoff was the Chief Financial Officer of
Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of embedded memory intellectual property
for the design of integrated circuits, from January 2006 to May 2006.
Mr. Meyerhoff was employed by FormFactor, Inc., a manufacturer of advanced
wafer probe cards, as Chief Operating Officer from April 2004 to July 2005,
Senior Vice President of Operations from January 2003 to April 2004 and Chief
Financial Officer from August 2000 to March 2005. Mr. Meyerhoff holds a
German Wirtschaftsinformatiker degree, which is the equivalent of a Finance and
Information Technology degree, from Daimler Benz’s Executive Training
Program.
      
      Mary
Beth Gustafsson joined First Solar in October 2008 as Vice President, General
Counsel. She was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
in November 2009. Prior to joining First Solar, Ms. Gustafsson was the
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Trane Inc. (formerly
American Standard Companies Inc.) from January 2005 through June 2008. From June
2008 through September 2008, Ms. Gustafsson was Vice President and Deputy
General Counsel of Ingersoll-Rand Ltd., following Ingersoll-Rand’s acquisition
of Trane. From 2001 through 2005, Ms. Gustafsson held positions of
increasing responsibility at American Standard Companies Inc., including Chief
Corporate Counsel and General Counsel for the company’s global air conditioning
business. Ms. Gustafsson holds a B.A. in English Literature from Boston
University, and a J.D. from The University of Michigan Law School.
      
      TK
Kallenbach joined First Solar in December 2009 as Executive Vice President of
Marketing and Product Management. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Kallenbach
was a senior executive at Honeywell Aerospace where he led strategic planning,
product marketing, product management, mergers and acquisitions and marketing
communications. His organization created and drove Honeywell Aerospace strategy
through product portfolio integration and product line management. Mr.
Kallenbach began his career at Honeywell (formerly AlliedSignal) in 1979, where
he held a variety of senior technical leadership positions, including Vice
President of Engineering and Technology for Aerospace Electronics, Defense &
Space Electronic Systems, and Propulsion Engines and Systems, and senior
business leadership positions including Vice President of Business Aviation,
Director of HTF7000 Propulsion System, and Director of Helicopter Engines. Mr.
Kallenbach holds both a B.S. in Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering and a
Masters of Business Administration from Arizona State University.
      
      David
Eaglesham joined First Solar in June 2006 as Vice President Technology and
became Chief Technology Officer in November 2009. Prior to joining First Solar,
he was Director of Advanced Technologies at Applied Materials. He also
previously worked as Chief Technologist at Lawrence Livermore and as Director of
Electronic Device Research at Bell Labs. He was Materials Research Society
President in 2005. Mr. Eaglesham has a PhD in Physics from the University of
Bristol.
      
      Carol
Campbell joined First Solar in March 2006 as Director of Human Resources and was
named Vice President of Human Resources in March 2007. She became the Company’s
Executive Vice President of Human Resources in November 2009. Prior to joining
First Solar, she was the Regional Director of Human Resources for North America
at the Dana Corporation, where she was responsible for all Dana plants in the
United States, Canada, and Mexico. Ms. Campbell was with Dana for 20 years,
progressing through levels of greater responsibility in the Legal and Human
Resource Departments. Ms. Campbell holds a Professional Human Resources
certification through the Society of Human Resources Management and has
extensive experience successfully developing and running highly effective HR
organizations in complex and rapidly changing environments. Ms. Campbell holds a
B.A. in Business from Heidelberg College.
      
      James
Zhu serves as First Solar’s Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Zhu joined the company
as Vice President, Corporate Controller in June 2007. Prior to joining First
Solar, Mr. Zhu served as Assistant Controller and then Vice President, Corporate
Controller for Salesforce.com from May 2004 to May 2007. From July 1999 through
April 2004, Mr. Zhu held positions of increasing responsibility at Chiron
Corporation (acquired by Novartis International AG in April 2006), including
Associate Director and Accounting Manager. Prior to joining Chiron Corporation,
Mr. Zhu worked at KPMG, LLP. Mr. Zhu is a Certified Public Accountant and holds
a B.A. in Economics from China and an M.B.A. in Accounting from Golden Gate
University.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
12
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      
        Item 1A:  Risk Factors
        
        An
investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully
consider the following information, together with the other information in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of
the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition
and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the
trading price of our stock could decline.
      
       
      Risks
Related to Our Markets and Customers
      
      If
photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or if
sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop
than we anticipate, our net sales and profit may flatten or decline and we may
be unable to sustain profitability.
      
      The
solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent
to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If photovoltaic
technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar
modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business or
generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for
solar modules in our targeted markets — including Germany, Italy, Spain,
France, the United States, Canada, China and Australia — may not develop or
may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the
viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for solar
modules, including the following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                cost-effectiveness
      of the electricity generated by photovoltaic power systems compared to
      conventional energy sources and products, including conventional energy
      sources, such as natural gas, and other non-solar renewable energy
      sources, such as wind;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                availability
      and substance of government subsidies, incentives and renewable portfolio
      standards to support the development of the solar energy
      industry;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                performance
      and reliability of PV systems and thin film technology compared to
      conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and
      products;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                success
      of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric,
      tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated photovoltaic, and
      biomass;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                fluctuations
      in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand
      for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as
      increases or decreases in the price of oil, natural gas and other fossil
      fuels; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                fluctuations
      in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to
      decrease when the economy slows and interest rates
    increase.
              
            
      
      
      Reduced
growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies,
economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity
applications, including the anticipated feed-in tariff reductions in Germany and
certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our
solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and
adversely impact our operating results.
      
      We
believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where
solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the
utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of
government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state and local
governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain,
France, the United States, Canada, China, India, Australia, Greece and Portugal
have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax incentives
and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and
manufacturers of photovoltaic products. Many of these jurisdictions, including
the majority of U.S. states and numerous European Union countries, have adopted
renewable portfolio standards in which the government requires jurisdictions or
regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity from
specified sources of renewable energy, such as solar, wind and hydroelectric
power. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, require
renewal by the applicable authority or may be amended. A summary of recent
developments in the major government subsidy programs in our core markets
follows. We expect the feed-in tariff in Germany and certain other core markets
to be reduced earlier than previously expected, and such reductions could reduce
demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net
sales and adversely impact our operating results. 
      
      German
feed-in tariffs will be adjusted earlier than previously expected, and any
downwards adjustment could reduce demand for our solar modules, lead to a
reduction in our net sales and adversely impact our operating
results. Currently, Germany, which accounted for approximately 65% of our
net sales in 2009, is the largest market for our modules, and thus recently
proposed changes to German feed-in tariffs could significantly impact our
results of operations. A reduction in the PV feed-in tariff is currently under
discussion and will most likely come into effect in the second or third quarter
of 2010. The amount of the FiT reductions are expected to vary among
roof-mounted applications, non-agricultural land free field applications and
agricultural land free field applications. A significant reduction in the FiT
for agricultural land free field applications in particular would likely cause a
significant decline in demand for PV solar systems on agricultural land in
Germany and contribute to a migration toward roof mounted applications and
non-agricultural land free field applications. Overall, reductions in the German
feed-in tariffs, including any potential further reductions, could result in a
significant decline in demand and price levels for photovoltaic products in
Germany, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.  
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
13
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      In
France, a new decree effective January 2010 provides for lower feed-in tariffs
for all applications (including, as in Germany, varying reductions for rooftop
applications and free field applications) while introducing, among other things,
a departmental bonus which makes free field projects in the northern regions of
France more attractive. The new decree does not have an expiry date, but can be
amended at any time.
      
      In
Italy, the current legislation provides that the existing feed-in tariff will be
in effect until the expiration of a 14 month transition period that will begin
once 1.2GW of photovoltaic systems are installed under the existing feed-in
tariff. It is expected that the Italian government will propose and enact a new
feed-in tariff before the end of 2010. Current proposals reflect significant FiT
reductions, particularly for ground mounted applications. We cannot be
certain of the level of such new feed-in tariff. If the level of such feed-in
tariff is not adequate to promote the development of the PV industry or PV
projects in Italy, our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in Italy would be
adversely affected.
       
      In
Spain, the current legislation is scheduled to be reviewed by January 1, 2012;
however, an earlier FiT adjustment is possible.
      
      In
the United States, California has been the state where the majority of solar
installations and solar power module and system sales have taken place during
the past five years. The state of California’s RPS goal of 33% of electricity
from renewable sources by 2020, currently in the form of an executive order from
the Governor’s office, is the most significant RPS program in the United States
in magnitude and is contributing to the expansion of the utility-scale solar
systems market in that state. However, the continued effectiveness of this RPS
program could be negatively impacted if the RPS goal is not passed by the CA
legislature and signed into law. See “Item 1A: Risk Factors — Our ability to
pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects may be
adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable mandate
through law” below.
      
      The
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides for certain measures
intended to benefit on-grid solar electricity generation and other renewable
energy initiatives, including (1) a cash grant in lieu of the 30% federal
investment tax credit for solar installations that are placed into service
during 2009 and 2010 or that begin construction prior to December 31, 2010 and
are placed into service by January 1, 2017, and (2) a 50% bonus depreciation for
installations placed in service during 2009. Various legislation has been
proposed to extend or enhance the 30% grant in lieu of the tax credit as well as
bonus depreciation. However, enactment of the extension or enhancement of such
incentives is highly uncertain. The failure to extend or enhance these programs
may reduce tax equity availability (in the case of the grant expiration) which
may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects
and may otherwise adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar
market.
      
      In
Ontario, Canada, a new feed-in tariff program was introduced in September 2009
and replaced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP) as the primary
subsidy program for future renewable energy projects. In order to participate in
the Ontario feed-in tariff program, certain provisions relating to minimum
required domestic content and land use restrictions for solar installations must
be satisfied. The new domestic content and land restriction rules do not
apply to our Sarnia solar project and the other projects governed by RESOP
contracts that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of the solar power
project development business of OptiSolar Inc. in April 2009. However, our
Ontario projects in earlier stages of development that are not governed by RESOP
contracts, as well as any potential new projects in Ontario, will be subject to
such domestic content and land restriction rules. As these rules are currently
written, we will be unable to fully satisfy such rules (in particular the
domestic content requirement rules), thus projects incorporating our modules
will not qualify for the Ontario feed-in tariff. In the event the Ontario
domestic content and land use restriction rules are not sufficiently modified,
our ability to participate in the Ontario feed-in tariff program for future
projects will be substantially reduced and possibly completely eliminated, and
thus our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in Ontario, Canada beyond our
existing RESOP projects would be adversely affected. 
      
      In
China, governmental authorities have not adopted a feed-in tariff policy and
currently award solar projects through either a project tendering process or
bi-lateral negotiations. While the solar industry generally anticipates that
China will adopt a solar feed-in tariff, there is no guarantee this will occur
in a timely manner or at all or that any feed-in tariff will be economically
viable. Without a feed-in tariff, the size and attractiveness of China’s solar
market may be limited and we may be unable to sell into China at an attractive
price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets.
      
      In
Australia, the large-scale solar industry is in its infancy, and despite several
encouraging government funded initiatives to promote large-scale solar
generation, it is uncertain whether such programs can be successfully
executed.
      
      In
2009, India announced its National Solar Mission, which includes a goal of
installing 20GW of solar by 2022. India is expected to announce a feed-in tariff
for the first phase of the National Solar Mission in 2010. There is no guarantee
that India will maintain its current 20GW by 2022 goal or adopt the required
policies to meet that goal, without which, the size and attractiveness of
India’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell modules or
systems in India at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth
markets.
      
      Emerging
subsidy programs may require an extended period of time to attain effectiveness
because the applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated with
these programs can be lengthy and administratively burdensome.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
14
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      In
addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to be
unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other reasons, sales prices
and/or volumes of our solar modules in these countries could decline
significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
      
      Electric
utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other
renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant
legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams.
      
      Reduced
growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies
and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those
in our target markets, could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline
and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.
      
      Our
ability to pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects
may be adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable
mandate through law.
      
      California
currently requires its investor-owned utilities (IOUs) to procure 20% of their
electricity supplies through eligible renewable energy resources by 2010. In
addition, California, through Executive Order has established a utility
procurement goal of 33% renewable electricity by 2020. Due to the threat of
penalties under the current law, investor-owned utilities have the incentive to
comply and have therefore signed long-term contracts to meet the 20% procurement
requirement. However, since the 33% procurement of renewable electricity by 2020
goal is not enforceable through law, it is conceivable that renewable energy
procurement in California could peak around 20% of the IOU’s electricity retail
sales in 2010. If the state legislature and Governor’s office are unable to
adopt legislation that could be signed into law by the end of 2010, the
viability of the 33% RPS program would remain at risk. California’s current
financial difficulties could contribute to an environment in which the 33% RPS
program could be questioned. In addition, any weakening or delay of the 33% RPS
program could contribute to, or be accompanied by, increased project execution
risks, delay, or costs relating to California authorities, such as the
California Independent System Operator. Under such a scenario, our ability to
execute a long-term expansion plan to develop additional large-scale PV projects
in California could be adversely affected.
      
      An
increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of
capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax
equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost
of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to
a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules.
      
      Many
of our customers and our systems business depend on debt financing to fund the
initial capital expenditure required to develop, build and purchase a PV system.
As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates could make it
difficult for our customers or our systems business to secure the financing
necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system on favorable terms,
or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules which could limit our
growth or reduce our net sales. Due to the overall economic outlook, our
end-users may change their decision or change the timing of their decision to
develop, build, purchase or install a PV system. In addition, we believe that a
significant percentage of our end-users install PV systems as an investment,
funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and
debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an
investor’s return on investment in a PV system, increase equity return
requirements or make alternative investments more attractive relative to
PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek
alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of project debt financing or
tax equity investments could reduce the number of solar projects that receive
financing and thus lower demand for solar modules. As described above under
“Item 1: Business — Sales and Marketing — Economic Incentives,” the 30% grant in
lieu of the federal investment tax credit under the ARRA is set to expire and
unless extended, will not be available for solar installations that begin
construction on or after January 1, 2011. If such program is not extended, total
tax equity availability could be reduced which may adversely affect our ability
to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may adversely affect the
attractiveness of the U.S. solar market.
      
      We
currently sell a substantial portion of our solar modules under Long-Term Supply
Contracts, and we allocate a significant amount of our production to satisfy our
obligations under these contracts. These customers buy our modules with the
expectation that they will be able to resell them in connection with the
development of PV systems. As discussed above, many of these projects depend on
the availability of debt and equity financing. A prolonged, material disruption
to the supply of project finance could adversely affect our customers’ ability
to perform under these agreements. In the event of default by one or more of
these customers, we may be unable to sell these modules at the prices specified
in our Long-Term Supply Contracts, especially if demand for PV systems softens
or supply of solar modules increases. Also, we may decide to lower our average
selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to changes in
economic circumstances of our customers, their end markets or the capital
markets. See “Item 1: Business — Segment Information — Components
Business — Customers” for a description of previous pricing adjustments
under our Long-Term Supply Contracts.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
15
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      We
currently depend on a limited number of customers, with five customers
accounting for a majority of our components business’ net sales last year. The
loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could
significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our operating
results.
      
      We
currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to customers headquartered
throughout the European Union. During 2009, our five largest customers for our
components business each accounted for between 10% and 19% of our component
business’ net sales. Our customer base within our components business is
currently concentrated to a significant extent in Germany, and therefore the
likely additional German feed-in tariff reductions currently under discussion
could reduce demand and/or price levels for our modules sold to these customers.
The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their
contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales
and adversely impact our operating results. Our customers face significant
challenges under current economic conditions, including lack of capital to
finance solar projects and rising costs associated with leasing or otherwise
acquiring land and rooftops for solar projects. We believe that we can mitigate
this risk by re-allocating modules to other customers if the need arises, but we
may be unable, in whole or in part, to mitigate the reduced demand for our
modules. In the event that we determine that our planned production of solar
modules exceeds the demand we anticipate, we may decide to reduce or halt
production of solar modules in our manufacturing facilities. However, we may be
unable to anticipate and respond to the oversupply of solar modules because we
have limited visibility into our customers’ inventories.
       
      Risks
Related to Regulations
      
      Existing
regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may
present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of
photovoltaic products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar
modules.
      
      The
market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign,
federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the
electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric
utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing
and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the
United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies
have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These
regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of photovoltaic products
and investment in the research and development of photovoltaic technology. For
example, without a mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems,
utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting
distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these
interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that
they would increase the cost to our end-users of using PV systems which could
make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of
operations and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by PV
systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the
less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour
pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day,
would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the
price of electricity from other sources.
      
      We
anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will be subject to
oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances
relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility
interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the
requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the
varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining
to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our
resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant
reduction in demand for our solar modules.
      
      Environmental
obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our
financial condition, cash flows and profitability.
      
      Our
operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage,
transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive
environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and
international level. These environmental laws and regulations include those
governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use,
management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of
contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and will
continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with
these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under,
environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our
operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties,
criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims,
cleanup costs or other costs. While we believe we are currently in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such
as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more
stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown
environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
16
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      In
addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental
cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous due to the
adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of
exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those
relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical, physical and
toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have not been thoroughly
investigated and reported. We maintain engineering controls to minimize our
associates’ exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates
who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the
use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles and
protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or
cadmium compounds from our end-products is limited by the fully encapsulated
nature of these materials in our products, the physical properties of cadmium
compounds used in our products and the implementation in 2005 of our collection
and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe that these factors
and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end-users and the
general public from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure that human or
environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will
not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third-party claims against
us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of
our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our
products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.
      
      The
use of cadmium in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent
governmental regulation. Future regulation in this area could impact the
manufacture, sale, collection and recycling of solar modules and could require
us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell
and distribute our products. For example, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on
the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic
equipment (RoHS Directive), restricts the use of certain hazardous substances,
including cadmium, in specified products. Other jurisdictions, such as China
have adopted similar legislation or are considering doing so. Currently, PV
solar modules are not subject to the RoHS Directive; however, the RoHS Directive
allows for future amendments subjecting additional products to the requirements
and the scope. Applicability and the products included in the Directive may also
change. In December 2008, the European Commission issued its proposed
revision of the RoHS Directive. This proposed revision did not include
photovoltaic solar modules in the scope of RoHS, but is now being amended by
both the European Parliament and the European Union Members States as part of
the normal European Union legislative process. The European Council and the
European Parliament are currently considering an “open scope” approach to the
RoHS Directive under which all Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE)
products would be included in the scope of the RoHS Directive unless
specifically excluded or exempted from coverage. As part of these discussions,
exclusion for PV panels from the RoHS Directive is being considered. A final
legislative agreement on the RoHS Directive is not expected until 2011 at the
earliest. If PV modules are included in the scope of RoHS without an exemption
or exclusion, we would be required to redesign our solar modules to eliminate
cadmium in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union,
which would be impractical. In such event, the European Union market would be in
effect closed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, 86% of our total net
sales were generated from module sales in the European Union. In addition, some
of our competitors are increasingly focusing on our modules’ use of cadmium
telluride in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage over us. If such actions
are successful, they could result in a loss of sales and potentially limit our
growth.
       
      Risks
Related to our Operations, Manufacturing and Technology
      
      Our
limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future
prospects and results of operations.
      
      We
have a limited operating history. Although we began developing our predecessor
technology in 1987, we did not launch commercial operations until we qualified
our pilot production line in January 2002. We qualified the first production
line at our Ohio plant in November 2004, the second and third production lines
at our Ohio plant in August 2006, our German plant in the third quarter of 2007,
and our Malaysian plants in 2008 and 2009. Because these production lines have
only been in operation for a limited period of time, our historical operating
results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business,
financial performance and prospects. While our net sales grew from $135.0
million in 2006 to $2.1 billion in 2009, we may be unable to achieve similar
growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth
in future periods is also affected by current economic conditions. Our past
results occurred in an environment where, among other things, capital was
generally more accessible to our customers to finance the cost of developing
solar projects and economic incentives for solar power in certain core markets
(such as the German feed-in tariff) were more favorable. Accordingly, you should
not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of
our future performance. See “Item 1: Business — Segment Information —
Components Business — Customers” for a description of previous pricing
adjustments under our Long-Term Supply Contracts.
      
      We
face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar
modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
systems; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a reduction in
the average selling price for photovoltaic modules.
      
      The
solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and
continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within
their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the
global photovoltaic industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar
module manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers and companies
developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
technologies.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
17
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Even
if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid expansion plans of many
solar cell and module manufacturers could create periods where supply exceeds
demand. In addition, we believe the significant decrease in the cost of silicon
feedstock will provide significant reductions in the manufacturing cost of
crystalline silicon solar modules and lead to pricing pressure for solar modules
and potentially the oversupply of solar modules, including in key markets such
as Germany and Spain.
      
      During
any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales price in
response to competition, even below their manufacturing cost, in order to
generate sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at
attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar
modules, which would reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of
operations. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain
customers in certain markets in response to competition.
      
      Thin
film technology has a short history and our thin film technology and solar
modules may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or
performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market
reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market
share.
      
      Researchers
began developing thin film semiconductor technology over 20 years ago, but
were unable to integrate the technology into a solar module production line
until recently. Our oldest active production line has been in operation since
November 2004, and the oldest solar modules manufactured during the
qualification of our pilot line have been in use since 2001. As a result, our
thin film technology and solar modules do not have a sufficient operating
history to confirm how our solar modules will perform over their estimated
25-year useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests under
different conditions. However, if our thin film technology and solar modules
perform below expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial
warranty expense.
      
      Our
solar modules are sold with a five-year materials and workmanship warranty for
technical defects and a 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10% of
their initial rated power in the first 10 years following their
installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following 15 years,
respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long
after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of
December 26, 2009, our accrued warranty liability was $22.6 million,
of which, $8.2 million was classified as current and $14.4 million was
classified as noncurrent.
       
      While
our power output warranty extends for 25 years, our oldest solar modules
manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only
been in use since 2001. Because of the limited operating history of our solar
modules, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and
reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions could prove to be materially
different from the actual performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur
substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future.
For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could break, delaminate or
experience power degradation in excess of expectations, our manufacturing
operations could be subject to process variations that could cause affected
modules to underperform compared to our expectations. Any widespread product
failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline and
require us to repair or replace the defective modules, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial results.
      
      If
our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling our solar
modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and
from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant
unplanned cash burden.
      
      We
pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling our solar
modules based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and
recycling the modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules
for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s installation site to
a recycling center, the material, labor and capital costs of the recycling
process and an estimated third-party profit margin and return on risk for
collection and recycling. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and
recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and solar
modules returned under our warranty and on our expectations about future
developments in recycling technologies and processes and economic conditions at
the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates
prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from
the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant
unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or
end-users return their solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In
addition, our end-users can return their solar modules at any time. As a result,
we could be required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we
expect and before recycling technologies and processes improve.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
18
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Our
failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved
photovoltaic products could render our solar modules uncompetitive or obsolete
and reduce our net sales and market share.
      
      We
will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development
to continue to improve our module conversion efficiency and to otherwise keep
pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research
and development activities are inherently uncertain and we could encounter
practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to
continuously improve our products and processes, and the resulting changes carry
potential risks in the form of delays, additional costs or other unintended
contingencies. In addition, our significant expenditures on research and
development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are
developing a variety of competing photovoltaic technologies, including copper
indium gallium diselenide and amorphous silicon, which could produce solar
modules that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar
modules. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly
reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power
production drawback of many renewable energy systems, or offers other
value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system
owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the levelized
cost of electricity associated with such new system is higher than that of our
systems. As a result, our solar modules may be rendered obsolete by the
technological advances of our competitors, which could reduce our net sales and
market share.
      
      In
addition, we often forward price our products and services (including through
our Long-Term Supply Contracts and power purchase agreements) in anticipation of
future cost reductions, and thus an inability to further refine our technology
and execute our long-term cost reduction objectives could adversely affect our
margins and operating results.
      
      Our
failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our
competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights
or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be
costly.
      
      Protection
of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is critical to our
business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual
property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely
primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and contractual
restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of December 26, 2009,
we held 22 patents in the United States, which will expire at various times
between 2012 and 2026, and had 96 patent applications pending. We also held 28
patents and had over 100 patent applications pending in foreign jurisdictions.
Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated,
circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not
result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not
be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against
competitive technologies.
      
      We
also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing
technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our
competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements
with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such
confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may
not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary
manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of
unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise.
In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through
independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or
confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology,
trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds
could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective
patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or
limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into
which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for
patent, trademark or copyright protection.
       
      Third
parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other
intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use
of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may
be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade
secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.
We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in
our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and
other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such
litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our
business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage
against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such
litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other
parties.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
19
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Many
of our key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a
limited number of third-party suppliers and their failure to perform could cause
manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to
customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is
profitable to us.
      
      Our
failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity
and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability
to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Many of our
key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited
number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our
suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations.
In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to
supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we implement
our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or
qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on
commercially reasonable terms. Raw materials and components from new suppliers
may also be less suited for our technology and yield solar modules with lower
conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation
than solar modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current
suppliers. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our
obligations under our Long-Term Supply Contracts, which would have an adverse
impact on our financial results.
      
      A
disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our semiconductor
material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar
modules.
      
      A
key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium telluride
compound. Tellurium is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining, and
its supply is therefore largely dependent upon demand for copper. Currently, we
purchase these raw materials from a limited number of suppliers. If our current
suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to perform under their
contracts or purchase orders, our operations could be interrupted or impaired.
In addition, because our suppliers must undergo a lengthy qualification process,
we may be unable to replace a lost supplier in a timely manner and on
commercially reasonable terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be
limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are
unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at
commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase
their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could
increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain
sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to
perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of
our raw materials through to our customers because our customer contracts do not
adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a longer term than
our raw material supply contracts. A reduction in our production could result in
our inability to meet our commitments under our Long-Term Supply Contracts, all
of which would have an adverse impact on our financial results.
       
      Our
future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing plants and add
production lines in a cost-effective manner, both of which are subject to risks
and uncertainties.
      
      Our
future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our
manufacturing capacity and production throughput in a cost-effective and
efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business,
decrease our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our
contractual obligations or sustain profitability. Our ability to expand
production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including
the following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                making
      changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or that
      may cause problems with the quality of our solar
  modules;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                delays
      and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be
      beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts
      with equipment vendors;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                our
      custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than
      expected and not operating as
designed;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                delays
      or denial of required approvals by relevant government
      authorities;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                being
      unable to hire qualified
staff; 
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                failure
      to execute our expansion plans effectively;
and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                manufacturing
      concentration risk resulting from an expected 24 out of 34 announced
      production lines worldwide by the end of 2012 being located in one
      geographic area, Malaysia.
              
            
      
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
20
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      If
our future production lines are not built in line with our committed schedules
it may impair our growth plans, if our future production lines do not achieve
operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules
could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.
      
      Currently,
our production lines have a limited history of operating at full capacity.
Future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower
efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar
modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine
the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to
improve performance. Although we will be using the same systematic replication
process to build our French manufacturing center and expand our Malaysian
manufacturing center that we successfully used when building and expanding our
existing German and Malaysian production facilities, our replication risk in
connection with building production lines at our French manufacturing center and
other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our replication risk was
in building and expanding our existing German and Malaysian production
facilities because two of these new production lines are located in a new
geographic area for us, which could entail other factors that may lower their
operating metrics. If we are unable to systematically replicate our production
lines to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar operating
metrics in our future production lines as we have achieved at our existing
production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained,
our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and this may impair our growth
plans and/or cause us to lose customers, resulting in lower net sales, higher
liabilities and lower net income than we anticipate. In addition, we might be
unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements
under our Long-Term Supply Contracts.
      
      Some
of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our
manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform
under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable
to satisfy our contractual requirements.
      
      Some
of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on
designs or specifications that we provide to the equipment manufacturer, which
then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a
result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would
be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working.
If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line
could be interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar modules to
satisfy our contractual requirements under our Long-Term Supply Contracts. In
addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely
manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and
otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs,
all of which would adversely impact our financial results.
      
      If
we are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per solar module
and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will be in default under certain
of our Long-Term Supply Contracts and our profitability could
decline.
      
      Our Long-Term Supply Contracts either
(1) require us to increase the minimum average number of watts per module
over the term of the contract or (2) have a price adjustment for increases
or decreases in the number of watts per module relative to a base number of
watts per module. Our failure to achieve these metrics could reduce our
profitability or allow some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In
addition, all of our Long-Term Supply Contracts in Europe specify a sales price
per watt that declines at the beginning of each year through the expiration date
of each contract in 2012. Our profitability could decline if we are unable to
reduce our manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which our
contractual prices decrease. Furthermore, our failure to reduce cost per watt by
increasing our efficiency may impair our ability to enter new markets that we
believe will require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair
our growth plans.
      
      We
may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations
effectively.
      
      We expect to continue to expand our
business in order to meet our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our
solar modules and maintain or increase market share. However, depending on the
amount of additional contractual obligations we enter into and our ability to
expand our manufacturing capabilities in accordance with our expectations, we
might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual
requirements under our Long-Term Supply Contracts and other commitments, in
which case we could be in default under such agreements and our operating
results may be adversely affected.
      
      Following
the completion of our expansion of our Ohio plant in 2010, we will have grown
from one production line in Ohio in 2005 to 24 production lines with an annual
global manufacturing capacity of approximately 1282MW (based on the fourth
quarter of 2009 average per line run rate at our existing plants). Construction
of our two-line French manufacturing facility is expected to begin in the second
half of 2010 and a full annual production capacity of more than 100MW is
expected to be reached in early 2012. Our eight-line Malaysian expansion is
expected to start production in the first half of 2011.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
21
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      To
manage the continued rapid expansion of our operations, we will be required to
continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and
controls and expand, train and manage our growing associate base. Our management
will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers,
suppliers and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In
addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal
procedures and controls might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we
cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of
market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive
pressures.
      
      Implementing a new enterprise resource
planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could
adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash
flows.
      
      We are in the process of implementing
a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We expect to complete Phase 1
of this implementation in the second half of 2010. This project requires
significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of
many processes of our business, and the attention of many associates and
managers who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any
disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new
ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated
and could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship
products, provide services and support to customers, bill and track our
customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in a timely manner
and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls
environment, and any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
      
      Our
substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including
unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign
countries.
      
      We
have significant marketing, distribution and manufacturing operations both
within and outside the United States. In 2009, 86% of our net sales were
generated from customers headquartered in the European Union. In the future, we
expect to expand our operations into China, India and other countries in Europe,
Asia and the Middle East and elsewhere; as a result, we will be subject to the
legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of
many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in enforcing agreements in foreign legal
  systems;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                foreign
      countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise
      tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on
      foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange
      controls;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                fluctuations
      in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our
      profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar
      modules and cost of raw materials, labor and equipment is denominated in a
      foreign currency;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                inability
      to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property
    rights;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                risk
      of nationalization of private
enterprises;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                changes
      in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we
      operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying
      on;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                unexpected
      adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including
      those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and
      quotas;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                opaque
      approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and
      increase the uncertainty of project
approvals;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in staffing and managing widespread
operations;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in repatriating earnings;
              
            
      
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
22
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in France or
      other jurisdictions;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                trade
      barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content
      requirements and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the
      price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some
      countries; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and
      legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell
      our solar modules.
              
            
      
       
      Our
business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market
conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends,
in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic,
social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement
policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do
business.
      
      Risks
Related to Our Systems Business
      
      Project
development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under
development may not receive required permits or construction may not commence as
scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our
investments.
      
      The
development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and
other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required
to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and
other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible,
economically attractive or capable of being built. Success in developing a
particular project is contingent upon, among other things:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                negotiation
      of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction
      agreements;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                receipt
      of required governmental permits and approvals, including the right to
      interconnect to the electric grid;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                payment
      of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are
      non-refundable);
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                obtaining
      construction financing; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                timely
      implementation and satisfactory completion of
  construction.
              
            
      
      
      Successful
completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous
factors, including:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                delays
      in obtaining required governmental permits and
  approvals;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                uncertainties
      relating to land costs for projects on land subject to Bureau of Land
      Management procedures;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                unforeseen
      engineering problems;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                construction
      delays and contractor performance
shortfalls;
              
            
      
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
23
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                work
      stoppages;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                cost
      over-runs
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                equipment
      and materials supply;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                adverse
      weather conditions; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                environmental
      and geological conditions.
              
            
      
      
      If
we are unable to complete the development of a solar power facility, or fail to
meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, we may be subject
to liquidated damages and/or penalties under the EPC agreement or other
agreements relating to the project, and we typically will not be able to recover
our investment in the project. Some of these investments are included as assets
on our balance under the line item “project assets.” If we are unable to
complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or
write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an
adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized.
In 2010, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects
owned by us or third parties.
      
       We
may enter into fixed price EPC contracts in which we act as the general
contractor for our customers in connection with the installation of our solar
power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into
the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the
overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates
are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the
subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. In addition, we
require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems.
Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise
increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project or delays in
execution occur and we are unable to increase commensurately the EPC sales
price, we may not achieve our expected margins or we may be required to
record a loss in the relevant fiscal period.
      
      We
may be unable to acquire or lease land and/or obtain the approvals, licenses and
permits necessary to build and operate PV power plants in a timely and cost
effective manner, and regulatory agencies, local communities or labor unions may
delay, prevent or increase the cost of construction and operation of the PV
plants we intend to build.
      
      In
order to construct and operate our PV plants, we need to acquire or lease land
and obtain all necessary local, county, state and federal approvals, licenses
and permits. We may be unable to acquire the land or lease interests needed, may
not receive or retain the requisite approvals, permits and licenses or may
encounter other problems which could delay or prevent us from successfully
constructing and operating PV plants. For instance, the California Independent
System Operator has recently modified its transmission interconnection rules,
phasing out a serial process in favor of a cluster process for new projects,
and may further modify its rules in a manner that could negatively impact
our favorable position in transmission queues. Certain of our California
projects under development will remain subject to the serial process while other
projects in earlier stages of development, as well as new projects on a
going-forward basis, will be subject to the cluster process. Although the
transition to the cluster process is still evolving and its ultimate impact is
not yet fully known, our project transmission cost could be materially higher
than previously estimated under the serial process and our projects could be
delayed or subject to transmission planning timing uncertainties. We also may be
required to post interconnection deposits (which may not be refundable) sooner
than previously estimated under the serial process. 
      
      Many
of our proposed PV plants are located on or require access through public lands
administered by federal and state agencies pursuant to competitive public
leasing and right-of-way procedures and processes. The authorization for the
use, construction and operation of PV plants and associated transmission
facilities on federal, state and private lands will also require the assessment
and evaluation of mineral rights, private rights-of-way and other easements;
environmental, agricultural, cultural, recreational and aesthetic impacts; and
the likely mitigation of adverse impacts to these and other resources and uses.
The inability to obtain the required permits and, potentially, excessive delay
in obtaining such permits due, for example, to litigation, could prevent us from
successfully constructing and operating PV plants and could result in a
potential forfeiture of any deposit we have made with respect to a given
project. Moreover, project approvals subject to project modifications and
conditions, including mitigation requirements and costs, could affect the
financial success of a given project.
      
      In
addition, local labor unions may increase the cost of, and/or lower the
productivity of, project development in Canada and California.
      
      In
China our projects are subject to a number of government approvals, including
the approval of a pre-feasibility and feasibility study. Individually, the
pre-feasibility and feasibility study require many different government
approvals at the national, provincial and local levels, and the approval process
is discretionary and not fully transparent.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
24
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      Lack
of transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the
transmission grid and other systems constraints could significantly impact our
ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity power
sales.
       
      In order to deliver electricity from
our PV plants to our customers, our projects need to connect to the transmission
grid. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could
substantially impact our projects and cause reductions in project size, delays
in project implementation, increases in costs from transmission upgrades and
potential forfeitures of any deposit we have made with respect to a given
project. These transmission issues, as well as issues relating to the
availability of large systems such as transformers and switch gear, could
significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar
electricity sales.
       
      Our
systems business is largely dependent on us and third parties arranging
financing from various sources, which may not be available or may only be
available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts.
       
      The
construction of our large utility-scale solar power projects under development
by us is expected in many cases to require project financing, including
non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan market and institutional
debt capital markets. Uncertainties exist as to whether our projects will be
able to access the debt markets in a sufficient magnitude to finance their
construction. If we are unable to arrange such financing or if it is only
available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fully execute our systems
business plan. In addition, we generally expect to sell our projects by raising
project equity capital from tax oriented, strategic industry and other equity
investors. Such equity sources may not be available or may only be available in
insufficient amounts, in which case our ability to sell our projects may be
delayed or limited and our business, financial condition or results of
operations may be adversely affected.
       
      In
addition, for projects in which we provide EPC services but are not the project
developer, our EPC activities are in many cases dependent on the ability of
third parties to purchase our PV plant projects, which, in turn, is dependent on
their ability to obtain financing for such purchases. Depending on prevailing
conditions in the credit markets and other factors, such financing may not be
available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient
amounts. If third parties are limited in their ability to access financing to
support their purchase of PV power plant projects from us, we may not realize
the cash flows that we expect from such sales, and this could adversely affect
our ability to invest in our business and/or generate revenue. See also the risk
factor above entitled “An
increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of
capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax
equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost
of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to
a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic
modules.”
       
      Developing
solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the
signing of a power purchase agreement or an EPC contract, which could adversely
affect our business and results of operations.
       
      Our
solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the
identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project,
vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of
these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments
of resources (including, for example, large transmission deposits or other
payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of PPAs and EPC
contracts and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for
several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential
inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making
such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of
operations.
      
      Our
liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market
weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and
timing commercially acceptable to us.
      
      Other
Risks
      
      We
may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and
integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and
management.
      
      In
April 2009, we acquired the solar power project development business of
OptiSolar Inc. and in the future, we may acquire additional companies, project
pipelines, products or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other
strategic initiatives. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an
acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the
following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired
      company;
              
            
      
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
25
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our
      current products and technologies;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and
      integration;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                disruption
      of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and associates
      from other opportunities and challenges due to integration
      issues;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information and
      other administrative systems;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                inability
      to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired
      business;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                inability
      to retain key customers, vendors and other business partners of the
      acquired business;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                inability
      to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined
      businesses;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                incurring
      acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible
      assets that could impact our operating
results;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                potential
      impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners,
      distributors or third party providers of technology or
      products;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                potential
      failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with
      product quality, architecture and development or legal and financial
      liabilities, among other things;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                potential
      inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are
      effective;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                potential
      inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from
      governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such
      acquisitions; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                potential
      delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the
      direction of our product offerings.
              
            
      
      
      Mergers
and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not
complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely
manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the
extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial
condition or results of operations.
      
      Our
future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to
successfully integrate them into our management team.
      
      We
are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Executive Chairman,
Robert J. Gillette, our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, Jens
Meyerhoff, our Chief Financial Officer, Mary Beth Gustafsson, our Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Carol Campbell, our
Executive Vice President, Human Resources, TK Kallenbach, our Executive Vice
President, Marketing and Product Management, David Eaglesham, our Chief
Technology Officer, and James Zhu, our Chief Accounting Officer and other
members of our senior management team. The loss of Ahearn, Gillette, Sohn,
Meyerhoff, Gustafsson, Campbell, Kallenbach, Eaglesham, Zhu or any other member
of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. There
is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key associates.
Several of our current key associates, including Ahearn, Gillette, Sohn,
Meyerhoff, Gustafsson, Campbell, Kallenbach, Eaglesham and Zhu are subject to
employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment
non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to
terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the
enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
26
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      If
we are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our business may be
materially and adversely affected.
      
      Our
future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract,
train and retain management, operations and technical personnel. Recruiting and
retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the
photovoltaic industry and thin film technology, are vital to our success. There
is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and there can be no
assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If
we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, our business may be
materially and adversely affected.
      
      We
may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties,
which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage
awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the
use of our technology.
      
      Our
success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and
know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights
of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic
technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual considerations
and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to
litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual
property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual
property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and
administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may
significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management
personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to
which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third
parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be
available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us
to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the
manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies.
Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers
deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the
resolution of such litigation.
      
      Currency
translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of
sales and gross margins and could result in exchange losses.
      
      Although
our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and
incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a
result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For
example, 86% and 95% of our net sales were denominated in euro for the years
ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, respectively, and we expect
a large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and
denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our operating
expenses for our plants located outside the U.S. (currently Germany and
Malaysia) and our operations for our systems business in Canada and other
European countries will be denominated in the local currency. Changes in
exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect
our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange gains or losses.
For example, the weakening of the euro reduced our net sales by $116.1 million
during fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. In addition, we incur currency
transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a
purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting
currency. For example, our European Long-Term Supply Contracts specify fixed
pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for changes in the
U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact
of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations.
      
      We
could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an
uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting
business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in
exchange rates to increase.
      
      Our
ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile
with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration
in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market
conditions could limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposure; and
therefore, result in exchange losses.
      
      The
Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant control over us and
their interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other
stockholders.
      
      Our
largest stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates, including
JCL Holdings, LLC and JTW Trust No. 1 UAD 9/19/02 (collectively, the Estate),
owned approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock at December 31,
2009. As a result, the Estate has substantial influence over all matters
requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the
approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers
and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the
Estate could conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. For
example, the concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or
prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other
business combination which a majority of stockholders may view
favorably.
      
      If
our goodwill, investment in a related party or project assets become impaired,
we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
      
      We
may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial
statements should we determine that our goodwill, investment in a related party
or project assets are impaired. Such a charge might have a significant impact on
our financial position and results of operations.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          Page
27
           

        
        
          
          
        
      
      As
required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill, investment in a related
party and project assets for impairment when events or changes in our business
or circumstances indicate that their fair value might be less than their
carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances
indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable
include a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a
significant decline in projections of future cash flows and significantly slower
growth rates in our industry. We are also required to test goodwill for
impairment at least annually. We would write down project assets, which are
capitalized on the balance sheet for certain solar power projects, should we
determine that the project is not commercially viable.
      
      Unanticipated
changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation or
exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our
profitability.
      
      We
are subject to income taxes in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions
in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge
for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany
transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various
jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges,
cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess
additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations
in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there
can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these
potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of
examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included
in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax
provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate
could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our
Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with tax
holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred
tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new
information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In addition,
President Obama's administration has recently announced proposals for new
U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. Any
of these changes could affect our results of operations.
      
      Our
credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to
operate our business.
      
      We
may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage
in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional
financing, if needed, because our revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase
and our Malaysian facility agreement contain, and any of our other future debt
agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among
other things:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                 incur
      additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit,
      or issue guarantees;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                create
      liens;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                enter
      into certain transactions with our
affiliates;
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                sell
      certain assets; and
              
            
      
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                declare
      or pay dividends, make other distributions to stockholders or make other
      restricted payments.
              
            
      
      
      Under
our revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase and our Malaysian facility
agreement, we are also subject to certain financial condition covenants. Our
ability to comply with covenants under our credit agreements is dependent on our
future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are
beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our
failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these
agreements and any of our other future debt agreements, which could permit the
holders thereof to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we
may in the future not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which
could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of
operation.
      
      Item 1B