ITEM 1A. Risk Factors


     
The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial position or results of operations and
could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.
These risk factors may not include all of the important factors
that could affect our business or our industry or that could
cause our future financial results to differ materially from
historic or expected results or cause the market price of our
common stock to fluctuate or decline.


10



Table of Contents


OUR FUTURE REVENUE GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY ARE DEPENDENT
UPON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND/ OR LICENSE, OR OTHERWISE
ACQUIRE, AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS IN
RELATION TO OUR COMPETITORS’ PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS. OUR
FAILURE TO DO SO SUCCESSFULLY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Our future revenues and profitability will depend, to a
significant extent, upon our ability to successfully develop
and/or license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new
generic and patent or statutorily protected (usually brand)
pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. Product development
is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety
and efficacy have not been established, and the market is not
yet proven. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks
including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the
achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of
contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license
scope or termination rights. The development and
commercialization process, particularly with regard to new
drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial
resources. We, or a partner, may not be successful in
commercializing any of the products that we are developing or
licensing (including, without limitation, nebivolol) on a timely
basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our product
introduction plans, financial position and results of operations
and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.


     
FDA approval is required before any prescription drug product,
including generic drug products, can be marketed. The process of
obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic
pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and
largely unpredictable. We, or a partner, may be unable to obtain
requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic or
brand products that we may develop, license or otherwise
acquire. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw
materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy
and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the
product’s launch. In the event that FDA approval is denied
or delayed we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory
becoming obsolete. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA
approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans,
financial position and results of operations and could cause the
market value of our common stock to decline.


     
The ANDA approval process often results in the FDA granting
final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product at the
time a patent claim for a corresponding brand product or other
market exclusivity expires. This often forces us to face
immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into
the market. Additionally, ANDA approvals often continue to be
granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of
the generic product. These circumstances generally result in
significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for
generic products compared to brand products. New generic market
entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over
the generic product life cycle.


     
The Waxman-Hatch Act provides for a period of 180 days of
generic marketing exclusivity for each ANDA applicant that is
first to file an ANDA containing a certification of invalidity,
non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed
with respect to a reference drug product, commonly referred to
as a Paragraph IV certification. During this exclusivity
period, which under certain circumstances may be required to be
shared with other applicable ANDA sponsors with
Paragraph IV certifications, the FDA cannot grant final
approval to other ANDA sponsors holding applications for the
same generic equivalent. If an ANDA containing a
Paragraph IV certification is successful and the applicant
is awarded exclusivity, it generally results in higher market
share, net revenues and gross margin for that applicant. Even if
we obtain FDA approval for our generic drug products, if we are
not the first ANDA applicant to challenge a listed patent for
such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a
competitor that filed its ANDA containing such a challenge. The
same would be true in situations where we are required to share
our exclusivity period with other ANDA sponsors with
Paragraph IV certifications. Such situations could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to market that product
profitably and on our financial position and results of
operations, and the market value of our common stock could
decline.


11



Table of Contents


OUR APPROVED PRODUCTS MAY NOT ACHIEVE EXPECTED LEVELS OF
MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON
OUR PROFITABILITY, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO
DECLINE.


     
Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new
pharmaceutical products, generic or brand, the success of those
products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market
acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several
factors, including:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the availability of alternative products from our competitors;



     



     
    • 
    
    the price of our products relative to that of our competitors;



     



     
    • 
    
    the timing of our market entry;



     



     
    • 
    
    the ability to market our products effectively to the retail
    level; and



     



     
    • 
    
    the acceptance of our products by government and private
    formularies.




     
Some of these factors are not within our control. Our new
products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance.
Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization,
safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being
conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such
studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and
techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and
efficacy of previously marketed products. For example, on
July 15, 2005, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory
regarding the safe use of transdermal fentanyl patches, a
product we currently market, the loss of revenues of which could
have a significant impact on our business. In some cases,
studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should
they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our
profitability, financial position and results of operations, and
the market value of our common stock could decline.



A RELATIVELY SMALL GROUP OF PRODUCTS MAY REPRESENT A
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR NET REVENUES, GROSS PROFIT OR NET
EARNINGS FROM TIME TO TIME. IF THE VOLUME OR PRICING OF ANY OF
THESE PRODUCTS DECLINES, IT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT
ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.



     
Sales of a limited number of our products often represent a
significant portion of our net revenues, gross profit and net
earnings. If the volume or pricing of our largest selling
products declines in the future, our business, financial
position and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline.



WE FACE VIGOROUS COMPETITION FROM OTHER PHARMACEUTICAL
MANUFACTURERS THAT THREATENS THE COMMERCIAL ACCEPTANCE AND
PRICING OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK
TO DECLINE.


     
Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes
competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons,
including that they may have:







    
    
    



     
    •  
    
    proprietary processes or delivery systems;



     



     
    •  
    
    larger research and development and marketing staffs;



     



     
    •  
    
    larger production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area;



     



     
    •  
    
    more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials;




12



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    •  
    
    more products; or



     



     
    •  
    
    more experience in developing new drugs and financial resources,
    particularly with regard to brand manufacturers.




     
Any of these factors and others could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial position and results of
operations and could cause the market value of our common stock
to decline.



BECAUSE THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IS HEAVILY REGULATED, WE
FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND UNCERTAINTIES ASSOCIATED WITH OUR
EFFORTS TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS. SHOULD WE FAIL TO
COMPLY WE COULD EXPERIENCE MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND THE
MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE.


     
The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various
federal and state governmental authorities. For instance, we
must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the
manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing,
advertising, promotion and development of pharmaceutical
products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental
regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated
compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or
partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension
of the FDA’s review of NDAs or ANDAs, enforcement actions,
injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain
circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke
previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal
regulatory compliance programs and policies and have had a
favorable compliance history, there is no guarantee that these
programs, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency
standards in the future. Additionally, despite our efforts at
compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to
be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to
be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial
position and results of operations could be materially affected
and the market value of our common stock could decline.


     
In addition to the new drug approval process, the FDA also
regulates the facilities and operational procedures that we use
to manufacture our products. We must register our facilities
with the FDA. All products manufactured in those facilities must
be made in a manner consistent with current good manufacturing
practices (“cGMP”). Compliance with cGMP regulations
requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in
such areas as production and quality control to ensure full
technical compliance. The FDA periodically inspects our
manufacturing facilities for compliance. FDA approval to
manufacture a drug is site-specific. Failure to comply with cGMP
regulations at one of our manufacturing facilities could result
in an enforcement action brought by the FDA which could include
withholding the approval of NDAs, ANDAs or other product
applications of that facility. If the FDA were to require one of
our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our
business could be adversely affected. Delay and cost in
obtaining FDA approval to manufacture at a different facility
also could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position and results of operations and could cause the
market value of our common stock to decline.


     
We are subject, as are generally all manufacturers, to various
federal, state and local laws regulating working conditions, as
well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including
those governing the discharge of materials into the environment.
Although we have not incurred significant costs associated with
complying with environmental provisions in the past, if changes
to such environmental laws and regulations are made in the
future that require significant changes in our operations or if
we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products
requiring new or different environmental controls, we may be
required to expend significant funds. Such changes could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations and could cause the market value of our
common stock to decline.


13



Table of Contents


OUR REPORTING AND PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE MEDICAID
REBATE PROGRAM AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL PURCHASING AND REBATE
PROGRAMS ARE COMPLEX AND MAY INVOLVE SUBJECTIVE DECISIONS. ANY
DETERMINATION OF FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THOSE OBLIGATIONS COULD
SUBJECT US TO PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS WHICH COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK
COULD DECLINE.


     
The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with
respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other
governmental programs are complex, and as discussed elsewhere in
this Form 10-K, we
and other pharmaceutical companies are defendants in a number of
suits filed by state attorneys general and have been notified of
an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice with
respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates. Our calculations
and methodologies are currently being reviewed internally and
likewise are subject to review and challenge by the applicable
governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews
could result in material changes. In addition, because our
processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in
making these calculations involve, and will continue to involve,
subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these
calculations are subject to the risk of errors.


     
In addition, as also disclosed in this
Form 10-K, a
number of state and federal government agencies are conducting
investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with
respect to Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), in which
they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP has led to
excessive payments for prescription drugs. We and numerous other
pharmaceutical companies have been named as defendants in
various actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and
whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical
manufacturers led to excessive payments by Medicare and/or
Medicaid.


     
Any governmental agencies that have commenced, or may commence,
an investigation of the Company could impose, based on a claim
of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil
and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and
possible exclusion from federal health care programs (including
Medicaid and Medicare). Some of the applicable laws may impose
liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud.
Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to
properly calculate and report payments-and even in the absence
of any such ambiguity-a governmental authority may take a
position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose
civil and/or criminal sanctions. Any such penalties or sanctions
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations and could cause the market
value of our common stock to decline.



WE EXPEND A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF RESOURCES ON RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS THAT MAY NOT LEAD TO SUCCESSFUL PRODUCT
INTRODUCTIONS. FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTRODUCE PRODUCTS INTO
THE MARKET COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS,
FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND THE MARKET
VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE.


     
Much of our development effort is focused on technically
difficult-to-formulate
products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing
technology. We conduct research and development primarily to
enable us to manufacture and market FDA-approved pharmaceuticals
in accordance with FDA regulations. Typically, research expenses
related to the development of innovative compounds and the
filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses
associated with ANDAs. As we continue to develop new products,
our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the
inherent risk associated with research and development efforts
in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs
(including, without limitation, nebivolol), our, or a
partner’s, research and development expenditures may not
result in the successful introduction of FDA approved new
pharmaceutical products. Also, after we submit an NDA or ANDA,
the FDA may request that we conduct additional studies and as a
result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total
research and development costs to develop a particular product.
Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in
developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful
in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant
resources on research and development efforts and are not able,
ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of
those efforts, our business,


14



Table of Contents


financial position and results of operations may be materially
adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock
could decline.



A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR NET REVENUES ARE DERIVED FROM
SALES TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. ANY SIGNIFICANT
REDUCTION OF BUSINESS WITH ANY OF THESE CUSTOMERS COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK
COULD DECLINE.


     
A significant portion of our net revenues are derived from sales
to a limited number of customers. As such, a reduction in or
loss of business with one customer, or if one customer were to
experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our
business, financial position and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected, and the market value of our
common stock could decline.



THE USE OF LEGAL, REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE STRATEGIES BY
COMPETITORS, BOTH BRAND AND GENERIC, INCLUDING “AUTHORIZED
GENERICS” AND CITIZEN’S PETITIONS, AS WELL AS THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT OF PROPOSED LEGISLATION, MAY INCREASE OUR COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE INTRODUCTION OR MARKETING OF OUR GENERIC
PRODUCTS, COULD DELAY OR PREVENT SUCH INTRODUCTION AND/ OR
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR PROFIT POTENTIAL. THESE FACTORS COULD
HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL
POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET
VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Our competitors, both brand and generic, often pursue strategies
to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to
brand products. These strategies include, but are not limited to:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will
    begin to market an “authorized generic”, a generic
    equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic
    competition initially enters the market;



     



     
    • 
    
    filing citizen’s petitions with the FDA, including timing
    the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing
    delays of our product approvals;



     



     
    • 
    
    seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would
    make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence;



     



     
    • 
    
    initiating legislative efforts in various states to limit the
    substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals;



     



     
    • 
    
    filing suits for patent infringement that automatically delay
    FDA approval of many generic products;



     



     
    • 
    
    introducing “next-generation” products prior to the
    expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product,
    which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic
    product for which we seek FDA approval;



     



     
    • 
    
    obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting
    clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by
    other potential methods as discussed below;



     



     
    • 
    
    persuading the FDA to withdraw the approval of brand name drugs
    for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the
    brand name company to obtain new patented products serving as
    substitutes for the products withdrawn; and



     



     
    • 
    
    seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent
    protection is about to expire.




     
The Food and Drug Modernization Act of 1997 includes a pediatric
exclusivity provision that may provide an additional six months
of market exclusivity for indications of new or currently
marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are
completed by the applicant. Brand companies are utilizing this
provision to extend periods of market exclusivity.


15



Table of Contents

     
Some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to the
Waxman-Hatch legislation that would give them additional
advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the
term of a company’s drug patent can be extended to reflect
a portion of the time an NDA is under regulatory review, some
companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year
for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half
year that is currently permitted.


     
If proposals like these were to become effective, our entry into
the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with
new products may be delayed, reduced or eliminated, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations and could cause the market
value of our common stock to decline.



THE INDENTURE FOR OUR SENIOR NOTES AND OUR SENIOR
SECURED CREDIT FACILITY IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT OPERATING AND
FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS, WHICH MAY PREVENT US FROM CAPITALIZING
ON BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND TAKING SOME ACTIONS. THESE FACTORS
COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL
POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET
VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
The indenture for our Senior Notes and senior secured credit
facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions
on us. These restrictions will limit the ability of us and our
subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional
indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain
liens, enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’
ability to pay dividends, or merge or consolidate. In addition,
our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain
specified financial ratios. We cannot assure you that these
covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance our
future operations or capital needs or to pursue available
business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants or
our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could
result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default
occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the
indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to
be immediately due and payable and proceed against any
collateral securing that indebtedness. These factors could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial position
and results of operations and could cause the market value of
our common stock to decline.



OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE OUR DEBT AND MEET OUR CASH
REQUIREMENTS DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS, SOME OF WHICH ARE BEYOND
OUR CONTROL. THESE FACTORS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT
ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO
DECLINE.


     
Our ability to satisfy our obligations, including our Senior
Notes and our senior secured credit facility, will depend on our
future operating performance and financial results, which will
be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including
interest rates and general economic, financial and business
conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow,
we may be required to: refinance all or a portion of our debt,
including the notes and our senior secured credit facility;
obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions,
working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate or
other purposes; redirect a substantial portion of our cash flow
to debt service, which as a result, might not be available for
our operations or other purposes; sell some of our assets or
operations; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or revise or
delay our operations or strategic plans. If we are required to
take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be
able to take any of these actions, that these actions would
enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or
that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our
senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the
notes. The increased leverage resulting from the financing of
our Dutch Auction self-tender offer through our notes offering
and our senior secured credit facility could have certain
material adverse effects on us, including limiting our ability
to obtain additional financing and reducing cash available for
our operations and acquisitions. As a result, our ability to
withstand competitive pressures may be decreased and, we may be
more vulnerable to economic downturns, which in turn could
reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business,
regulatory and economic conditions. These factors could have a
material adverse effect on


16



Table of Contents


our business, financial position and results of operations and
could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.



WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
RAW MATERIALS, PARTICULARLY THE CHEMICAL COMPOUND(S) COMPRISING
THE ACTIVE PHARMACEUTICAL INGREDIENT, THAT WE USE TO MANUFACTURE
OUR PRODUCTS, AS WELL AS CERTAIN FINISHED GOODS. A PROLONGED
INTERRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF SUCH PRODUCTS COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK
COULD DECLINE. 


     
We typically purchase the active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e.
the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic
effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we
use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished
products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers.


     
Additionally, we maintain safety stocks in our raw materials
inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one
supplier in our applications with the FDA, have received FDA
approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise.
However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely
and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished
product. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a
single-sourced raw material, including the active ingredient, or
finished product could cause our financial position and results
of operations to be materially adversely affected, and the
market value of our common stock could decline. In addition, our
manufacturing capabilities could be impacted by quality
deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations, and the market value of our
common stock could decline.


     
The Company utilizes controlled substances in certain of its
current products and products in development and therefore must
meet the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970
and the related regulations administered by the Drug Enforcement
Administration (“DEA”). These regulations relate to
the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of controlled
substances. The DEA limits the availability of the active
ingredients used in certain of our current products and products
in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these
active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial
demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to
the DEA for procurement quota in order to obtain these
substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our
procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop
our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade
inventory disruptions for those products that have already been
launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations and could
cause the market value of our common stock to decline.



WE USE SEVERAL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES TO MANUFACTURE OUR
PRODUCTS. HOWEVER, A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE
PRODUCED AT ONE LOCATION. PRODUCTION AT THIS FACILITY COULD BE
INTERRUPTED, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD
CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Although we have other facilities, we produce a significant
number of our products at our largest manufacturing facility. A
significant disruption at that facility, even on a short-term
basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to
the market on a timely basis, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial position and results
of operations and could cause the market value of our common
stock to decline.


17



Table of Contents


WE MAY EXPERIENCE DECLINES IN THE SALES VOLUME AND PRICES OF
OUR PRODUCTS AS THE RESULT OF THE CONTINUING TREND TOWARD
CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN CUSTOMER GROUPS, SUCH AS THE WHOLESALE
DRUG DISTRIBUTION AND RETAIL PHARMACY INDUSTRIES, AS WELL AS THE
EMERGENCE OF LARGE BUYING GROUPS. THE RESULT OF SUCH
DEVELOPMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD
CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
We make a significant amount of our sales to a relatively small
number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. These
customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain
of generic pharmaceutical products. Drug wholesalers and retail
drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo,
significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in
these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and
consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our
business. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups
representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence
and influence of managed care organizations and similar
institutions potentially enable those groups to attempt to
extract price discounts on our products. The result of these
developments may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position and results of operations and could cause the
market value of our common stock to decline.



WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL AND OTHER
PROPRIETARY PROPERTY IN AN EFFECTIVE MANNER, WHICH COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR
COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Although our brand products may have patent protection, this may
not prevent other companies from developing functionally
equivalent products or from challenging the validity or
enforceability of our patents. If any patents we use in our
business are found or even alleged to be non-infringed, invalid
or not enforceable, we could experience an adverse effect on our
ability to commercially promote our patented products. We could
be required to enforce our patent or other intellectual property
rights through litigation, which can be protracted and involve
significant expense and an inherently uncertain outcome. Any
negative outcome could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations and could
cause the market value of our common stock to decline.



OUR COMPETITORS INCLUDING BRAND COMPANIES OR OTHER THIRD
PARTIES MAY ALLEGE THAT WE ARE INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY, FORCING US TO EXPEND SUBSTANTIAL RESOURCES IN
RESULTING LITIGATION, THE OUTCOME OF WHICH IS UNCERTAIN. ANY
UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME OF SUCH LITIGATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON
STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Companies that produce brand pharmaceutical products routinely
bring litigation against ANDA applicants that seek FDA approval
to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded
products. These companies allege patent infringement or other
violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for
filing suit against an ANDA applicant. Likewise, patent holders
may bring patent infringement suits against companies that are
currently marketing and selling their approved generic products.
Litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or
prevent introduction or sale of our generic products.


     
There may also be situations where the Company uses its business
judgment and decides to market and sell products,
notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent
infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts.
The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the
remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement
include, among other things, damages measured by the profits
lost by the patent owner and not by the profits earned by the
infringer. In the case of a willful infringement, the definition
of which is subjective, such damages may be trebled. Moreover,
because of the discount pricing typically involved with
bioequivalent products, patented brand products generally
realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent
products. An adverse decision in a case such as this or in other
similar litigation could have a


18



Table of Contents


material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations and could cause the market value of our
common stock to decline.



WE MAY EXPERIENCE REDUCTIONS IN THE LEVELS OF REIMBURSEMENT
FOR PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS BY GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES, HMOS OR
OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYERS. ANY SUCH REDUCTIONS COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR
COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Various governmental authorities and private health insurers and
other organizations, such as HMOs, provide reimbursement to
consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products.
Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which
such reimbursement is available. Third-party payers increasingly
challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. This trend and
other trends toward the growth of HMOs, managed health care and
legislative health care reform create significant uncertainties
regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical
products. Further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the
future, perhaps to the point that market demand for our products
declines. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position and results of operations and
could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.



LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY PROGRAMS THAT MAY INFLUENCE PRICES
OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON
OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Current or future federal or state laws and regulations may
influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely
affect the prices that we receive for our products. Programs in
existence in certain states seek to set prices of all drugs sold
within those states through the regulation and administration of
the sale of prescription drugs. Expansion of these programs, in
particular, state Medicaid programs, or changes required in the
way in which Medicaid rebates are calculated under such
programs, could adversely affect the price we receive for our
products and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations and could
cause the market value of our common stock to decline.



WE ARE INVOLVED IN VARIOUS LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CERTAIN
GOVERNMENT INQUIRIES AND MAY EXPERIENCE UNFAVORABLE OUTCOMES OF
SUCH PROCEEDINGS OR INQUIRIES, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON
STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
We are involved in various legal proceedings and certain
government inquiries, including, but not limited to, patent
infringement, product liability, breach of contract and claims
involving Medicaid and Medicare reimbursements, some of which
are described in our periodic reports and involve claims for, or
the possibility of fines and penalties involving, substantial
amounts of money or for other relief. If any of these legal
proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome,
the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position and results of operations and could cause the
market value of our common stock to decline.


     
With respect to product liability, the Company maintains
commercial insurance to protect against and manage a portion of
the risks involved in conducting its business. Although we carry
insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can
fully protect against all such risks because of the potential
liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals
for human consumption. To the extent that a loss occurs,
depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance
coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position and results of operations and
could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.


19



Table of Contents


WE ENTER INTO VARIOUS AGREEMENTS IN THE NORMAL COURSE OF
BUSINESS WHICH PERIODICALLY INCORPORATE PROVISIONS WHEREBY WE
INDEMNIFY THE OTHER PARTY TO THE AGREEMENT. IN THE EVENT THAT WE
WOULD HAVE TO PERFORM UNDER THESE INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS, IT
COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL
POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET
VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into
employment, legal settlement, and other agreements which
incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance
coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our
obligations under these indemnification provisions. However,
should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed
our coverage or should coverage be denied, our business,
financial position and results of operations could be materially
affected and the market value of our common stock could decline.



OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGIES IN GENERAL INVOLVE A NUMBER OF
INHERENT RISKS. THESE RISKS COULD CAUSE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE A DECLINE IN THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR
COMMON STOCK.


     
We continually seek to expand our product line through
complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies,
products and assets, and through joint ventures, licensing
agreements or other arrangements. Acquisitions, joint ventures
and other business combinations involve various inherent risks,
such as assessing accurately the values, strengths, weaknesses,
contingent and other liabilities, regulatory compliance and
potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction
candidates. Other inherent risks include the potential loss of
key personnel of an acquired business, our inability to achieve
identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to
result from an acquisition or other transaction and
unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
affecting an acquisition or other transaction. International
acquisitions, and other transactions, could also be affected by
export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and
foreign political conditions and the deterioration in domestic
and foreign economic conditions.


     
We may be unable to realize synergies or other benefits expected
to result from acquisitions, joint ventures and other
transactions or investments we may undertake, or be unable to
generate additional revenue to offset any unanticipated
inability to realize these expected synergies or benefits.
Realization of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other
transactions could take longer than expected, and implementation
difficulties, market factors and the deterioration in domestic
and global economic conditions could alter the anticipated
benefits of any such transactions. These factors could cause a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations and could cause a decline in the market
value of our common stock.



OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR CONTINUED
ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL. ANY FAILURE TO
ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK
TO DECLINE.


     
Because our success is largely dependent on the scientific
nature of our business, it is imperative that we attract and
retain qualified personnel in order to develop new products and
compete effectively. If we fail to attract and retain key
scientific, technical or management personnel, our business
could be affected adversely. Additionally, while we have
employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their
employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed.
If we are unsuccessful in retaining all of our key employees, it
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations and could cause the market
value of our common stock to decline.


20



Table of Contents


RECENT DECISIONS BY THE FDA, CURRENT BRAND TACTICS AND OTHER
FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL HAVE PLACED OUR BUSINESS UNDER
INCREASING PRESSURE, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT
ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO
DECLINE.


     
We believe that certain recent FDA rulings are contrary to
multiple sections of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
and the Administrative Procedures Act, the FDA’s published
regulations and the legal precedent on point. These decisions
call into question the rules of engagement in our industry and
have added a level of unpredictability that may materially
adversely affect our business and the generic industry as a
whole. While we continue to challenge these recent decisions as
well as current brand tactics that undermine congressional
intent, we cannot guarantee that we will prevail or predict when
or if these matters will be rectified. If they are not, our
business, financial position and results of operations could
suffer and the market value of our common stock could decline.



WE HAVE BEGUN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE
PLANNING SYSTEM. AS WITH ANY IMPLEMENTATION OF A SIGNIFICANT NEW
SYSTEM, DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED COULD RESULT IN BUSINESS
INTERRUPTIONS, AND COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD
CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
We have begun the implementation of an enterprise resource
planning (“ERP”) system to enhance operating
efficiencies and provide more effective management of our
business operations. Implementations of ERP systems and related
software carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and
business interruptions and delays. If we experience a material
business interruption as a result of our ERP implementation, it
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations and could cause the market
value of our common stock to decline.



WE MUST MAINTAIN ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROLS AND BE ABLE, ON
AN ANNUAL BASIS, TO PROVIDE AN ASSERTION AS TO THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF SUCH CONTROLS. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROLS
OR TO IMPLEMENT NEW OR IMPROVED CONTROLS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON
STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to
provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial
reports. We are spending a substantial amount of management time
and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and
standards relating to corporate governance and public
disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC
regulations and the New York Stock Exchange rules. In
particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our
internal control systems, and attestations as to the
effectiveness of these systems by our independent registered
public accounting firm. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of
our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can
conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal
control over financial reporting. Additionally, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements
because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility
of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or
fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and
fair presentation of financial statements. In addition,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject
to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. If the Company fails to
maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any
failure to implement required new or improved controls, this
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations, and the market value of our
common stock could decline.


21



Table of Contents


THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN ESTIMATES,
JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH GAAP. ANY FUTURE CHANGES IN
ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED OR NECESSARY REVISIONS
TO PRIOR ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS OR ASSUMPTIONS COULD LEAD TO A
RESTATEMENT WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COULD
CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.


     
The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements
included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The
preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP
involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect
reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets),
liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments
and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future
and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or
assumptions could lead to a restatement. Any such changes could
result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets
(including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities,
revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations and could cause the market value of our
common stock to decline.













    
    



    ITEM 1B