ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 



NiSource Inc.


There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results,
financial condition and cash flows. New risks may emerge at any time, and NiSource cannot predict
those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the
risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.


NiSource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition.



NiSource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding as a result of the acquisition of
Columbia. NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,432.5 million outstanding as of
December 31, 2006. The substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors.
For example, it could:






     
    •
     
    limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing
additional funds;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



     

     
    •
     
    limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industries in which the company operates;



     

     
    •
     
    lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such
as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;



     

     
    •
     
    place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; and



     

     
    •
     
    increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.





Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios
and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could
result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of
outstanding debt obligations.


NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance
with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash
flow and profitability.


NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges,
remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. Compliance with
these legal requirements requires NiSource to commit significant expenditures for installation of
pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at
many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they
will continue to be significant in the future.


If NiSource’s subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to
the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or
harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and
its subsidiaries. In September 2004, the EPA issued an NOV to Northern Indiana alleging violations
of the new source review provisions of the Clean Air Act. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require capital expenditures beyond the EPA requirements that cannot be determined at this time and
could require payment of substantial penalties.


Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to
protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or
additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating
restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully
recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. The cost impact of any new or
amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at
this time.



9




Table of Contents





ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)


NiSource Inc.


A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and
commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results
fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.


Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal
weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential
usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity
costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased energy costs, thus affecting
NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.


Electric operations in northern Indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
events in the steel and steel related industries. In particular, sales to large industrial
customers in these industries have been impacted by economic downturns generally, and may be
affected by consolidation and globalization within such industries.


The majority of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the
impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.


Virtually all of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal
or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to
regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the
energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. As part of a settlement reached in
other regulatory proceedings, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case with
the IURC on or before July 1, 2008. The outcome for the rate case could have a material effect on
NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s recent outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM may not achieve the level
of savings that was originally anticipated. Additionally, many associated changes in systems and
personnel are being made, increasing operational and control risk during transition, which may have
an impact on the business and its financial condition.


NiSource’s original expectation of the 10-year agreement with IBM was to deliver upwards of $530
million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. This cost savings is dependent upon many
factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially
less than expected. Many functions have recently been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel
have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays,
potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial
condition.


As a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have
an accelerated time-line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential
errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. In
August, 2006, NiSource and IBM decided to delay further implementation of certain information
technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system
implementations. This delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while
continuing to ensure stable operations. NiSource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of
the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and
develop an integrated plan that enables NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward.


NiSource’s Whiting merchant energy project is operating at a loss.


NiSource owns and operates a merchant energy facility, Whiting Clean Energy, at BP’s Whiting,
Indiana refinery. This facility uses natural gas to generate electricity for sale in the wholesale
markets and to generate steam for industrial use by BP’s refinery. In the fourth quarter of 2006,
NiSource reached a new definitive agreement with BP redefining the terms under which Whiting Clean
Energy will provide steam to BP. The profitability of this facility will remain dependant upon the
market prices for electricity and natural gas and regional load dispatch patterns. The after-tax
loss for Whiting Clean Energy was approximately $40.9 million for 2006 and $21.5 million for 2005.
In addition, an amendment to the agreement with BP provides BP with an option, valid for 180 days
from the Amendment’s effective date in December 2006, for BP to purchase the facility free of
liens, for $100 million.


10




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)


NiSource Inc.


Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the
Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million.





ITEM 1B