Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  Readers are
urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully
in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we
make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our
business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors
described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other
factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or
other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary
statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and
that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the
results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even
if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the
expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our
operating results in the way we expect. We caution readers not to place undue
reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to
reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by
applicable law.
     
    
    
      
         

      
      
        2
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
     
    WAL-MART
STORES, INC.
    ANNUAL
REPORT ON FORM 10-K
    FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2009
     
    PART I
     
    
      
          
            
              ITEM 1.
            
            
              BUSINESS
            
          
      
    
     
    General
     
    Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in
various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they
can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a
broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices
(“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect,
integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price
items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will
not change under frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on
January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, we had net
sales of $401.2 billion.
    
    Our
operations comprise three business segments: Walmart U.S., International and
Sam’s Club.
     
    Our
Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for
63.7% of our fiscal 2009 net sales and operates stores in three different
formats in the United States, as well as Wal-Mart’s online retail operations,
walmart.com. Our Walmart U.S. retail formats include:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Discount
      stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer
      a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food
      products;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Supercenters,
      which average approximately 186,000 square feet in size and offer a wide
      assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
      and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Neighborhood
      Markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer
      a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general
      merchandise.
            
          
      
    
    
    At
January 31, 2009, our International segment consisted of retail operations
in 14 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 24.6% of our fiscal 2009
net sales. The International segment includes numerous different formats of
retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s
Clubs that operate outside the United States.
    
    Our Sam’s
Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and the
segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.7%
of our fiscal 2009 net sales. Our Sam’s Clubs average approximately 133,000
square feet in size.
     
    We
maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716, USA.
     
    The
Development of Our Company
     
    Although
Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted
by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin
variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton,
opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’
business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year,
the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers,
Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal
1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first
Neighborhood Market.
     
    In fiscal
1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint
venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de
C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra,
and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico,
S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to
expand. At January 31, 2009, our International segment was comprised of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto
Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five
countries in Central America, and in Chile and Mexico, our joint ventures in
India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.
     
    At
January 31, 2009, we operated 891 discount stores, 2,612 supercenters, 153
Neighborhood Markets and 602 Sam’s Clubs in the United States. At the end of
fiscal year 2009, our International segment operated units in Argentina (28),
Brazil (345), Canada (318), Chile (197), Costa Rica (164), El Salvador (77),
Guatemala (160), Honduras (50), Japan (371), Mexico (1,197), Nicaragua (51),
Puerto Rico (56) and the United Kingdom (358). We also operated 243 stores in
China through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries
at January 31, 2009. At January 31, 2009, our Indian business consisted of
wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations through
our joint venture with Bharti Enterprises and technical support to the retail
stores of Bharti Retail through a franchise agreement.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        3
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    Our
Business Segments
     
    Our
retail operations serve our customers through three segments. The Walmart U.S.
segment includes our discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in
the United States as well as walmart.com. The Sam’s Club segment includes the
warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The
International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada,
Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. You will find information
concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived
assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations. We have incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31,
2009, and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders,
portions of which are included as an exhibit hereto.
     
    Walmart
U.S. Segment
     
    The
Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $255.7 billion, $239.5 billion and $226.3
billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store,
supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total
Company net sales.
     
    General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates
retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters
in 48 states and Neighborhood Markets in 16 states. Our discount stores range in
size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of
approximately 108,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 94,000 square
feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 186,000
square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 36,000 square feet to
62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet.
From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market
demands and needs.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of
merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com.
     
    WALMART
U.S. SEGMENT
    STORE
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
    FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009
     
    
      
        
          
            
                
                   
      
                   
                  
                    Walmart
      U.S.
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Walmart
      U.S.
                  
                   
                
                
                   
      
                   
                  
                    Discount
      Stores
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Supercenters
                  
                   
                
                
                   
      
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                    Square
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                    Square
                  
                   
                
                
                  
                    Fiscal
      Year
                  
                   
                  
                    Opened
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Closed
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Conversions (2)
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Total
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Footage
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Opened (2)
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Closed
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Total
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Footage
                  
                   
                
                
                  
                    Balance
      Forward
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1,478
                   
                   
                   
                  145,065
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1,471
                   
                   
                   
                  275,067
                   
                
                
                  
                    2005
                  
                   
                   
                  36
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  159
                   
                   
                   
                  1,353
                   
                   
                   
                  135,481
                   
                   
                   
                  242
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  1,713
                   
                   
                   
                  320,056
                   
                
                
                  
                    2006
                  
                   
                   
                  24
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  166
                   
                   
                   
                  1,209
                   
                   
                   
                  123,607
                   
                   
                   
                  267
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  1,980
                   
                   
                   
                  370,711
                   
                
                
                  
                    2007
                  
                   
                   
                  15
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  147
                   
                   
                   
                  1,075
                   
                   
                   
                  114,507
                   
                   
                   
                  279
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                   
                   
                  2,256
                   
                   
                   
                  421,211
                   
                
                
                  
                    2008
                  
                   
                   
                  7
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  109
                   
                   
                   
                  971
                   
                   
                   
                  104,561
                   
                   
                   
                  191
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  2,447
                   
                   
                   
                  456,516
                   
                
                
                  
                    2009
                  
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  4
                   
                   
                   
                  78
                   
                   
                   
                  891
                   
                   
                   
                  96,304
                   
                   
                   
                  165
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  2,612
                   
                   
                   
                  486,625
                   
                
                
                   
      
                   
                  
                    Walmart
      U.S.
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Total
                  
                   
                
                
                   
      
                   
                  
                    Neighborhood
      Markets
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Walmart
      U.S. Segment
                  
                   
                
                
                   
      
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                    Square
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                    Square
                  
                   
                
                
                  
                    Fiscal
      Year
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                    Opened
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Closed
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Total
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Footage
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Opened (3)
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Closed
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Total
                  
                   
                   
                  
                    Footage
                  
                   
                
                
                  
                    Balance
      Forward
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  64
                   
                   
                   
                  2,778
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  3,013
                   
                   
                   
                  422,910
                   
                
                
                  
                    2005
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  21
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  85
                   
                   
                   
                  3,621
                   
                   
                   
                  140
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  3,151
                   
                   
                   
                  459,158
                   
                
                
                  
                    2006
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  15
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  100
                   
                   
                   
                  4,218
                   
                   
                   
                  140
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  3,289
                   
                   
                   
                  498,536
                   
                
                
                  
                    2007
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  12
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  112
                   
                   
                   
                  4,672
                   
                   
                   
                  159
                   
                   
                   
                  5
                   
                   
                   
                  3,443
                   
                   
                   
                  540,390
                   
                
                
                  
                    2008
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  20
                   
                   
                   
                  -
                   
                   
                   
                  132
                   
                   
                   
                  5,552
                   
                   
                   
                  109
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  3,550
                   
                   
                   
                  566,629
                   
                
                
                  
                    2009
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  23
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  153
                   
                   
                   
                  6,370
                   
                   
                   
                  112
                   
                   
                   
                  6
                   
                   
                   
                  3,656
                   
                   
                   
                  589,299
                   
                
            
          
        
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              (1)
            
            
              “Total”
      and “Square Footage” columns are as of January 31, of the years
      shown. Square footage is reported in
thousands.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              (2)
            
            
              Includes
      expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to
      supercenters.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              (3)
            
            
              Total
      opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores
      to supercenters.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        4
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below,
across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and
Neighborhood Markets.
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Grocery
      consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli,
      bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery as well as consumables
      such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet
      supplies.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Entertainment
      contains electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services,
      cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and
      toys.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Hardlines
      consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive
      accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting
      goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal
  merchandise.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Apparel
      includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and
      jewelry.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Health
      and wellness includes pharmacy and optical
  services.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Home
      includes home furnishings, housewares and small
  appliances.
            
          
      
    
    
    The
Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including
money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.
    
    Nationally
advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart
U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store
brands including “Great Value,” “Equate,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Sam’s Choice,” “Spring
Valley,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “No Boundaries,”
“George,” “Athletic Works,” “Secret Treasures,” “Puritan,” “Durabrand,”
“HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Ozark Trail,” “White Stag” and “Canopy.” The Company
also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include
“General Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,”  “Better Homes &
Gardens,” “OP,” “Starter,” “Danskin Now” and “Just My Size.”
     
    Sales for
the Walmart U.S. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:
     
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    
                      
                        
                            
                               
      
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                            
                            
                               
      
                               
                              
                                January 31,
                              
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                STRATEGIC
      MERCHANDISE UNITS
                              
                               
                              
                                2009
                              
                               
                               
                              
                                2008
                              
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Grocery
                              
                               
                               
                              49
      
                              %
                               
                               
                              47
      
                              %
                            
                            
                              
                                Entertainment
                              
                               
                               
                              13
                               
                               
                               
                              14
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Hardlines
                              
                               
                               
                              12
                               
                               
                               
                              12
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Apparel
                              
                               
                               
                              11
                               
                               
                               
                              12
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Health &
      Wellness
                              
                               
                               
                              10
                               
                               
                               
                              9
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Home
                              
                               
                               
                              5
                               
                               
                               
                              6
                               
                            
                            
                              
                                Total
                              
                               
                               
                              100
      
                              %
                               
                               
                              100
      
                              %
                            
                        
                      
                    
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        5
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of
discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of
operation for the remaining discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood
Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m.,
seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit
cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party
provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for
products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
    
    Seasonal
Aspects of Operations. The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to
a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.
    
    Competition.
Our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and
specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional
chains. Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts,
discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new
store sites.
    
    Our
ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our
customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail
industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within
our industry. These programs include the following:
     
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              EDLP
      – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under
      which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust
      that our prices will not change under frequent promotional
      activity;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Rollbacks
      – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by
      lowering prices on selected goods;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Store
      Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant and
      department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department
      performance;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Store
      of the Community – a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in
      a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
      which that store is located;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Clean,
      Fast and Friendly – our commitment to deliver a great customer experience
      through fast, friendly service in a clean
  environment;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Win,
      Play and Show – a strategy to select a merchandise assortment based on our
      growth potential, economies of scale and customer credibility in each
      business; and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              •
            
             
      
            
              Save
      Even More  – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s
      advertised price on key value
items.
            
          
      
    
    
    In
addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that
provides one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our
customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that
allow customers to shop at their convenience, provide us with additional
competitive advantages.
     
    Distribution.  During
fiscal 2009, approximately 81% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of
merchandise were shipped to the segment’s stores through our distribution
centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores
from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through
our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport
the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
     
    Our
Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as
of January 31, 2009, located strategically throughout the continental United
States.  Of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated
106. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution
facilities.  During fiscal 2009, the Company opened one food import
distribution center and closed one walmart.com distribution
center.  In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of
our Wal-Mart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for
certain items.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        6
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    International
Segment
     
    The
International segment’s net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal
years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were $98.6 billion, $90.4
billion and $76.9 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
     
    General. Our International
segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina,
Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned
subsidiaries operating in five countries in Central America, and in Chile and
Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled
subsidiaries in China.
     
    INTERNATIONAL
SEGMENT
    UNIT
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
    FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009
     
    
    
      
        
          
              
                 
      
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                
                  Central
                
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                 
      
                 
                
                  Argentina
                
                 
                 
                
                  Brazil(2)
                
                 
                 
                
                  Canada
                
                 
                 
                
                  America
                
                 
                 
                
                  Chile
                
                 
                 
                
                  China(3)
                
                 
              
              
                 
      
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
              
              
                
                  Fiscal
      Year
                
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
              
              
                
                  Balance
      Forward
                
                 
                 
                11
                 
                 
                 
                2,175
                 
                 
                 
                25
                 
                 
                 
                3,370
                 
                 
                 
                235
                 
                 
                 
                27,211
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                34
                 
                 
                 
                5,713
                 
              
              
                
                  2005
                
                 
                 
                11
                 
                 
                 
                2,175
                 
                 
                 
                149
                 
                 
                 
                11,393
                 
                 
                 
                262
                 
                 
                 
                29,953
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                43
                 
                 
                 
                7,550
                 
              
              
                
                  2006
                
                 
                 
                11
                 
                 
                 
                2,175
                 
                 
                 
                295
                 
                 
                 
                23,225
                 
                 
                 
                278
                 
                 
                 
                31,730
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                56
                 
                 
                 
                10,261
                 
              
              
                
                  2007
                
                 
                 
                13
                 
                 
                 
                2,427
                 
                 
                 
                299
                 
                 
                 
                23,789
                 
                 
                 
                289
                 
                 
                 
                33,591
                 
                 
                 
                413
                 
                 
                 
                7,128
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                73
                 
                 
                 
                13,583
                 
              
              
                
                  2008
                
                 
                 
                21
                 
                 
                 
                3,789
                 
                 
                 
                313
                 
                 
                 
                24,958
                 
                 
                 
                305
                 
                 
                 
                36,590
                 
                 
                 
                457
                 
                 
                 
                7,822
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                202
                 
                 
                 
                36,391
                 
              
              
                
                  2009
                
                 
                 
                28
                 
                 
                 
                4,373
                 
                 
                 
                345
                 
                 
                 
                26,371
                 
                 
                 
                318
                 
                 
                 
                39,501
                 
                 
                 
                502
                 
                 
                 
                8,277
                 
                 
                 
                197
                 
                 
                 
                9,564
                 
                 
                 
                243
                 
                 
                 
                43,165
                 
              
              
                 
      
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                 
      
                 
                
                  Japan(4)
                
                 
                 
                
                  Mexico
                
                 
                 
                
                  Puerto
      Rico
                
                 
                 
                
                  United
      Kingdom
                
                 
                 
                
                  Total
      International
                
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                 
      
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                
                  Unit
                
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  Fiscal
      Year
                
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                
                  Count
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  Balance
      Forward
                
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                623
                 
                 
                 
                35,334
                 
                 
                 
                53
                 
                 
                 
                3,478
                 
                 
                 
                267
                 
                 
                 
                21,967
                 
                 
                 
                1,248
                 
                 
                 
                99,248
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  2005
                
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                679
                 
                 
                 
                39,133
                 
                 
                 
                54
                 
                 
                 
                3,596
                 
                 
                 
                282
                 
                 
                 
                23,328
                 
                 
                 
                1,480
                 
                 
                 
                117,128
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  2006
                
                 
                 
                375
                 
                 
                 
                26,725
                 
                 
                 
                774
                 
                 
                 
                44,655
                 
                 
                 
                54
                 
                 
                 
                3,774
                 
                 
                 
                315
                 
                 
                 
                25,532
                 
                 
                 
                2,158
                 
                 
                 
                168,077
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  2007
                
                 
                 
                369
                 
                 
                 
                26,887
                 
                 
                 
                889
                 
                 
                 
                50,401
                 
                 
                 
                54
                 
                 
                 
                3,829
                 
                 
                 
                335
                 
                 
                 
                26,800
                 
                 
                 
                2,734
                 
                 
                 
                188,435
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  2008
                
                 
                 
                371
                 
                 
                 
                24,532
                 
                 
                 
                1,023
                 
                 
                 
                56,804
                 
                 
                 
                54
                 
                 
                 
                3,829
                 
                 
                 
                352
                 
                 
                 
                27,868
                 
                 
                 
                3,098
                 
                 
                 
                222,583
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  2009
                
                 
                 
                371
                 
                 
                 
                24,478
                 
                 
                 
                1,197
                 
                 
                 
                63,113
                 
                 
                 
                56
                 
                 
                 
                4,037
                 
                 
                 
                358
                 
                 
                 
                28,907
                 
                 
                 
                3,615
                 
                 
                 
                251,786
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
          
        
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (1)
            
            
              Square
      footage is reported in thousands. Excludes units and square footage for
      our operations in Germany and South Korea, which we disposed of in October
      2006.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (2)
            
            
              Brazil
      includes 118 Bompreço units acquired in February 2004 and 139 Sonae
      units acquired in December 2005.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (3)
            
            
              Includes
      units of Bounteous Company Ltd. (“BCL”). BCL operates 103 hypermarkets in
      34 cities in China under the Trust-Mart
banner.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (4)
            
            
              Excludes
      52 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000
      square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu stores, which have closed or
      will close in fiscal 2010.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
         

      
      
        7
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
    International
unit counts and operating formats as of January 31, 2009:
     
    
      
        
          
              
                 
      
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
              
              
                
                  Country
                
                 
                
                  Supermarkets
                
                 
                 
                
                  Discount
      Stores
                
                 
                 
                
                  Supercenters
                
                 
                 
                
                  Hypermarkets
                
                 
                 
                
                  Other
                
                 
                 
                
                  Total
                
                 
              
              
                
                  Argentina
                
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                22
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                6
                 
                 
                 
                28
                 
              
              
                
                  Brazil(1)
                
                 
                 
                155
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                34
                 
                 
                 
                71
                 
                 
                 
                85
                 
                 
                 
                345
                 
              
              
                
                  Canada(2)
                
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                256
                 
                 
                 
                56
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                6
                 
                 
                 
                318
                 
              
              
                
                  Chile
                
                 
                 
                46
                 
                 
                 
                76
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                75
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                197
                 
              
              
                
                  China
                
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                132
                 
                 
                 
                103
                 
                 
                 
                8
                 
                 
                 
                243
                 
              
              
                
                  Costa
      Rica
                
                 
                 
                25
                 
                 
                 
                122
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                6
                 
                 
                 
                11
                 
                 
                 
                164
                 
              
              
                
                  El
      Salvador
                
                 
                 
                30
                 
                 
                 
                45
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                2
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                77
                 
              
              
                
                  Guatemala
                
                 
                 
                29
                 
                 
                 
                109
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                6
                 
                 
                 
                16
                 
                 
                 
                160
                 
              
              
                
                  Honduras
                
                 
                 
                7
                 
                 
                 
                36
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                1
                 
                 
                 
                6
                 
                 
                 
                50
                 
              
              
                
                  Japan
                
                 
                 
                264
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                106
                 
                 
                 
                1
                 
                 
                 
                371
                 
              
              
                
                  Mexico(3)
                
                 
                 
                163
                 
                 
                 
                67
                 
                 
                 
                154
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                813
                 
                 
                 
                1,197
                 
              
              
                
                  Nicaragua
                
                 
                 
                7
                 
                 
                 
                44
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                51
                 
              
              
                
                  Puerto
      Rico
                
                 
                 
                31
                 
                 
                 
                7
                 
                 
                 
                8
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                10
                 
                 
                 
                56
                 
              
              
                
                  United
      Kingdom
                
                 
                 
                307
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                30
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                21
                 
                 
                 
                358
                 
              
              
                
                  Grand
      Total
                
                 
                 
                1,064
                 
                 
                 
                762
                 
                 
                 
                436
                 
                 
                 
                370
                 
                 
                 
                983
                 
                 
                 
                3,615
                 
              
          
        
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (1)
            
            
              “Other”
      format includes 22 Sam’s Clubs, 23 cash-n-carry stores, 39 combination
      discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise
    store.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (2)
            
            
              “Other”
      format includes 6 Sam’s Clubs that were closed in March of fiscal
      2010.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              (3)
            
            
              “Other”
      format includes 91 Sam’s Clubs, 279 combination discount and grocery
      stores, 83 department stores and 360
  restaurants.
            
          
      
    
     
    During
fiscal 2009, the Company disposed of Gazeley Limited (“Gazeley”), an ASDA
commercial property development subsidiary in the United Kingdom. Consequently,
the results of operations associated with Gazeley and the gain on disposal are
presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income
and Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows
related to this operation were insignificant for all periods
presented.
    
    During
the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a restructuring program
under which the Company’s Japanese subsidiary, The Seiyu Ltd., will close 23
stores and dispose of certain excess properties. This restructuring will involve
incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment
charges and employee separation benefits, although any additional costs are not
expected to be material. The costs associated with this restructuring and
the results of operations of the affected stores and properties are presented as
discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income and
Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows and
accrued liabilities related to this restructuring were insignificant for all
periods presented.
    
    In January 2009, the Company completed
a tender offer for the shares of Distribución y Servicio D&S S.A.
(“D&S”), acquiring approximately 58.2% of the outstanding D&S shares
(the "First Offer").  D&S has 197 stores, 10 shopping centers and 85
PRESTO financial services branches throughout Chile. The purchase price for the
D&S shares in the First Offer was approximately $1.55 billion.
 As of January 31, 2009, assets recorded in the acquisition after the First
Offer, were approximately $3.6 billion, including approximately $1.0 billion in
goodwill, liabilities assumed were approximately $1.7 billion and minority
interest was approximately $395 million.  Under the Chilean securities laws, the Company
was required after the First Offer to initiate a second tender offer (the
"Second Offer") for the remaining outstanding shares of D&S on the same
terms as the First Offer. The Company completed the Second Offer in March 2009,
acquiring approximately 16.4% of the outstanding D&S shares for
approximately $430 million, resulting in the Company owning approximately 74.6%
of the D&S shares. In connection with the transaction, the former D&S
controlling shareholders were each granted a put option that is exercisable
beginning in January 2011 through January 2016. During the exercise period, the
put option allows each former controlling shareholder the right to require the
Company to purchase up to all of their shares of D&S (approximately 25.1%)
owned following the Second Offer at fair market value at the time of an
exercise, if any.  The consolidated financial statements of D&S, as
well as the allocation of the purchase price as of January 31, 2009, are
preliminary.
    
    Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International segment is similar to that of
our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of
merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a
majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the United States have
been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop
relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of
quality merchandise.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        8
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by
country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and
national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment
methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards
issued by third-party providers. Other consumer finance programs exist in
certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the
customer.
     
    Across
the International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from
multiple store formats and global procurement practices. In addition,
relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes
across countries.
     
    Seasonal
Aspects of Operations. The International segment’s business is seasonal
to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to
different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as
different climatic conditions.
     
    Competition.
The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and
international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety
and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in
which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international
restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality
merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment
determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international
units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major
impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we
operate.
    
    Distribution.  We
utilize a total of 146 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and two export
consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we
process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating
units of the International segment. During fiscal 2009, approximately 74% of the
International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities.
Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to
our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 146
distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 34.
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 78 distribution
facilities.
    
    Sam’s
Club Segment
    
    The Sam’s
Club segment had net sales of $46.9 billion, $44.4 billion and $41.6 billion for
the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as
much as 1% of total Company net sales.
    
    General.
As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility
sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet,
with the average Sam’s Club facility being approximately 133,000 square feet.
Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and
services online at
www.samsclub.com.
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              SAM’S
      CLUB SEGMENT
            
          
      
    
    CLUB
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
    FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009(1)
     
    
      
        
          
              
                 
      
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                
                  Square
                
                 
              
              
                
                  Fiscal
      Year
                
                 
                
                  Opened
                
                 
                 
                
                  Closed
                
                 
                 
                
                  Total
                
                 
                 
                
                  Footage
                
                 
              
              
                
                  Balance
      Forward
                
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                538
                 
                 
                 
                68,144
                 
              
              
                
                  2005
                
                 
                 
                13
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                551
                 
                 
                 
                70,677
                 
              
              
                
                  2006
                
                 
                 
                17
                 
                 
                 
                1
                 
                 
                 
                567
                 
                 
                 
                73,391
                 
              
              
                
                  2007
                
                 
                 
                15
                 
                 
                 
                3
                 
                 
                 
                579
                 
                 
                 
                76,270
                 
              
              
                
                  2008
                
                 
                 
                12
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                591
                 
                 
                 
                78,236
                 
              
              
                
                  2009
                
                 
                 
                11
                 
                 
                 
                -
                 
                 
                 
                602
                 
                 
                 
                79,906
                 
              
          
        
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              (1)  
            
            
              “Total”
      and “Square Footage” columns are as of January 31, of the years
      shown. Square footage is reported in
thousands.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        9
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods,
some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label
items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB”
brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club
format.
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Sundries,
      including snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
      paper goods, laundry and home care and other
  consumables.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Food, including
      dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled and frozen
      packaged foods.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Hardgoods,
      including home improvement, electronics, office supplies, outdoor living,
      grills, gardening and furniture.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Service
      businesses, including photo processing, pharmacy and optical services,
      floral, tire and battery centers and gasoline
  stations.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              Softgoods,
      including apparel, jewelry, housewares, mattresses and small
      appliances.
            
          
      
    
    
    Sales for
the Sam’s Club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:
     
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    
                        
                           
      
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
      
                           
                          
                            January 31,
                          
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            CATEGORY
                          
                           
                          
                            2009
                          
                           
                           
                          
                            2008
                          
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            Sundries
                          
                           
                           
                          37
      
                          %
                           
                           
                          36
      
                          %
                        
                        
                          
                            Food
                          
                           
                           
                          30
                           
                           
                           
                          29
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            Hardgoods
                          
                           
                           
                          16
                           
                           
                           
                          18
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            Service
      Businesses, including fuel
                          
                           
                           
                          12
                           
                           
                           
                          12
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            Softgoods
                          
                           
                           
                          5
                           
                           
                           
                          5
                           
                        
                        
                          
                            Total
                          
                           
                           
                          100
      
                          %
                           
                           
                          100
      
                          %
                        
                    
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
     
    Operations.
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to
8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits
business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through
Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
    
    Sam’s
Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted
at our clubs, including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private
label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In
addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and
services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
    
    Members
include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individual
consumers are referred to as Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an
individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee
for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business
members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business
account for $35 each. Businesses can also purchase Advantage memberships for
their employees under a Group Membership Program. Group rates are $30 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. Sam’s Club PLUS
is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services.
The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In
addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates
(add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each.
    
    Seasonal
Aspects of Operations. The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.
    
    Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount
retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and
distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club
competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.
Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of
small business members largely determines our competitive position in the
warehouse club industry.
     
    Distribution.
During fiscal 2009, approximately 65% of the Sam’s Club segment non-fuel
purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution
facilities and some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers for
certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases
directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2009, our Sam’s Club
segment operations were supported by 26 distribution facilities located
strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 26 distribution
facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 18 distribution facilities.
    
    The
principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking
merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution
process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound
trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility,
sometimes less than an hour.
    
    Sam’s
Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to
transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We
contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from
distribution centers to clubs.
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
     
    Employees
     
    As of
January 31, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries employed over
2.1 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately
1.4 million associates in the United States and approximately 694,000
associates internationally. Like almost all retailers, the Company has a large
number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant
turnover in employees each year. In the United States, the Company offers a
broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the Wal-Mart
Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships,
bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the
Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life insurance. The Company also offers
health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The
Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most
expenses.
     
    In our
operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of
associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory
requirements.
     
    Our
Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
     
    Our
corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com.
We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those
reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to
time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished
to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free
of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them
with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any
of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The
SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that
file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.
Our SEC filings, our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement
of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors.
These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by
writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our
principal offices.
     
    A
description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics
for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor
Relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on
our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or
waiver.
     
    Certain
financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report
to Shareholders under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 11 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is
incorporated herein by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders
are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
     
    
      
          
            
              ITEM 1A.
            
            
              RISK
      FACTORS
            
          
      
    
     
    The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only
risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional
factors that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally,
as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently
consider to be immaterial to our operations.
     
    General
economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect
our financial performance.
     
    General
economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may
adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing
market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer
disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt
levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory
changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely
affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart
U.S. segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one
with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases
of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on
inventory. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, decreases in consumer
disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the local housing market, currency devaluations and other
adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate
may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries,
especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than
in the United States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins,
cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect
our operations and operating results in our International segment.
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
     
    Higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs,
inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange
rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the
imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated
with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other
economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have
operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and
administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and
international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that
affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of
our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an
increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more
extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the
volume typically available to us for sale.
     
    We
may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including
conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our
financial performance.
     
    Our
expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts
successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to
increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.
Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood
Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into
supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and
retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.
Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings
of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community
action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the
adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our
ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into
supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and
states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit
our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into
supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores,
Neighborhood Markets or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into
supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income
growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets
into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise
not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be
adversely affected.
     
    Impediments
to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our
financial performance.
     
    Our
business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective
acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our
existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries
in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing
operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those
countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or
Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States,
our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a
market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our
ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to
acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability
to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites
on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to
local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units
or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover,
cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we
introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not
being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will
be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.
If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International
segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
     
    We may be
unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable
prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such
candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to
successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing
operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be
successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in
a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for
acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and
alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our
International segment and our future financial performance.
     
    Failure
to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor
issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
     
    Our
ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad
depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of
qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability
to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing
stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors,
including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the
work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within
those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other
insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and
regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified
personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if
new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial
performance could be affected adversely.
     
    We
face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.
     
    The
retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes
for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other
important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national
retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we
have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating
discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets,
supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and
catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club
operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and
general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based
retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with
retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale
club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and
availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store
amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers
through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and
Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our
competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with
competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to
respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets
could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating
segments.
     
    Although
the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the
retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result
in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail
marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved
financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive
positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider
variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated
companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
     
    Risks
associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety
of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.
     
    The
products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international
suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important
factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with
applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be
certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to
find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a
timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect
to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and
economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located,
the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier
standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw
materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates,
transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other
factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located
are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies,
tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on
certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods
or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors
relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors
affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our
financial performance.
     
    Our
customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the
safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then
sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to
seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs,
even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence
on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As
such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell,
regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial
performance.
     
    Our
International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions
specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely
affect our financial performance.
     
    We
currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India
and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2009, our
International operations generated 24.6% of our net sales. As a result of a
recent acquisition of operations and our expansion activities in foreign
countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a
larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in
these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be
negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our
control. These factors include political conditions, including political
instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade
policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we
operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or
regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on
future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect
our financial performance.
     
    Moreover,
the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the
past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if
they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other
factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade,
monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries,
laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and
similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities
located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United
States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally
include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international
operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing
intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The
various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also
exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated
by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to
differences in culture, laws and regulations.
     
    Natural
disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial
performance.
     
    The
occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and
earthquakes, other weather conditions, such as major winter storms, and
geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally
and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial
performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our
properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers,
the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term
disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the
disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in
the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in
which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our
stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and
disruption in our communications with our stores.  These factors could
otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial
performance.
     
    The
significant property damage experienced by the Company and others resulting from
the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property
insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance
markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the Company for
named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more
limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to
us. As a result the Company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses
that may result from named windstorms.
    
       
      
        
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
      
    
     
    We
are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
     
    We are
involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment,
tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us
or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous
cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought
claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we
are a defendant in Dukes v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all
past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale
clubs in the United States. The class as certified in Dukes currently includes
present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we
have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in
promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things,
injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On
June 4, 2004, the U.S. district court hearing this case issued an order
granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided
three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
upheld the district court’s ruling. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed
a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the
Court of Appeals. On November 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its
opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the
Company’s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. The Company filed a
new Petition for Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13,
2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. The court of
appeals heard oral argument on the Petition on March 24, 2009. We discuss these
cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under
the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are
included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
     
    If
we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage
our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become
subject to litigation.
     
    As do
most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In
addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and
www.samsclub.com
depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of
our security systems that results in customer personal information being
obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or
the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that
we expend significant additional resources related to our information security
systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our
online sales operations.
     
    We
rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results
and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up)
systems could harm our ability to run our business.
     
    Although
we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary
computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year,
it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical
computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are
subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic
events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our
employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease
to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or
replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.
Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems
may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In
addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information
technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer
systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of
system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken,
although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.
If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to
realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these
initiatives.
     
    We
may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could
negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our
products and services, and our market share.
     
    It is
difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our
customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our
ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer
preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing
consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and
our market share.
     
    
      
          
            
              ITEM 1B