Item 1A,
“Risk Factors,” for a discussion of such risks). From time to time, these risks
may exhibit greater levels of correlation than might be expected over the
longer term due to the presence of, to a greater or lesser degree, some common
risk drivers (internal or external to the Company) embedded in the Company’s
businesses that may manifest themselves simultaneously. An enterprise view of
risk is required to identify and manage the consequences of these common risks
and risk drivers on the Company’s profitability, capital strength and
liquidity.

          The
Company’s enterprise risk management (“ERM”) initiatives are led by the Chief
Enterprise Risk Officer (“CERO”), who is a member of the Company’s senior
management team, and who reports to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. The
CERO also acts as a liaison between the Company’s Enterprise Risk Committee
(see below) and the Board (or other of its committees) with respect to risk matters.
All of the Company’s employees are expected to assist in the appropriate and
timely identification and management of risks and to enhance the quality and
effectiveness of ERM.

          The
Company’s ERM framework is designed to allow management to identify and
understand material risk concentrations, including concentrations that have
unattractive risk/reward dynamics so that prompt, appropriate, corrective or
mitigating actions can be taken. To do this, the Company has risk management
committees and processes to serve as points of managerial dialogue and
convergence across its businesses and functional areas, creates risk
aggregation methodologies and develops specific risk appetites to coordinate
the identification, vetting and discussion of risk topics and metrics. As part
of its ERM activities, the Company applies a suite of stress tests, tools, risk
indicators, metrics and reporting processes that examine the consequences of
low probability/high severity events (including those related to emerging
risks) in order to drive mitigating actions where required.

Risk Governance

          Risk
Governance relates to the processes by which oversight and decision-making
authorities with respect to risks are granted to individuals within the
enterprise. The Company’s governance framework establishes accountabilities for
tasks and outcomes as well as escalation criteria. Governance processes are
designed to ensure that transactions and activities, individually and in the
aggregate, are carried out in accordance with the Company’s risk policies,
philosophies, appetites, limits and risk concentrations, and in a manner
consistent with expectations of excellence of integrity, accountability and
client service.

          In
July 2010, after completing a comprehensive review of the Company’s ERM
processes and controls, the Board determined that there was no longer a need
for a special committee focused on ERM. As a result, the RFC now oversees ERM
matters. With respect to the responsibilities relating to ERM, the RFC:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Oversees ERM activities,
 including the risk management framework employed by management. In light of
 the overall risk management framework, the RFC (i) reviews the methodology
 for establishing the Company’s overall risk capacity; (ii) reviews the policies
 for the establishment of risk limit frameworks, and adherence to such limits;
 and (iii) reviews and approves enterprise risk limits.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Oversees the Company’s
 compliance with any significant enterprise risk limits, authorities and
 policies. The RFC evaluates what actions to take with respect to such
 enterprise limits, authorities and policies, and approves any exceptions
 thereto from time to time as necessary.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Reviews the Company’s
 overall risk profile and monitor key risks across the Company’s organization
 as a whole, which may involve coordination with other committees of the Board
 from time to time as appropriate.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Reviews the Company’s
 process controls over model use and development with respect to model
 effectiveness, accuracy, propriety and model risk.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Monitors the Company’s
 risk management performance and obtains reasonable assurance from management
 that the Company’s risk management policies are effective and are being
 adhered to.
 
 


          The
review of the Company’s overall risk appetites and the evaluation of the risk
impact of any material strategic decision being contemplated, including
consideration of whether such strategic decision is within the risk profile
established by the Company, is conducted by the full Board. “Risk appetites,”
as referred to above, are broad statements used to guide the Company’s risk and
reward preferences over time, all consistent with, among other factors,
business prudence, market opportunities, the underwriting pricing cycle and
investment climate. Risk appetites are regularly monitored and can change over
time in light of the above. See “–Risk Appetite Management” below.

18




          Management
oversight of ERM is performed, in part, via a centralized management Enterprise
Risk Committee (“ERC”), which is chaired by the CERO. The ERC is comprised of
the Company’s most senior management from its businesses and functions and is
charged with developing and monitoring enterprise risk policies, risk
appetites, risk limits and compliance with such limits, and risk aggregations,
and identifying key emerging risks and ways to mitigate such risks.

          In
addition to the ERC, the Company has established a framework of separate yet
complementary ERM subcommittees, each focusing on particular aspects of ERM.
These subcommittees include:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Economic Capital Model
 Subcommittee: This subcommittee oversees the development of economic capital
 models that support ERM activities, and helps set priorities and manage
 resources related to such models. It reviews assumptions and related
 methodologies used within the Company’s economic capital model, including
 assessments of model validation, model control and model risk.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Liability Subcommittee:
 This subcommittee supports and assists the ERC’s identification, measurement,
 management, monitoring and reporting of key underwriting liability and
 emerging risks.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Asset Subcommittee: This
 subcommittee assists the ERC in its responsibilities in relation to
 governance and oversight of asset-related risks across the Company, including
 its Investment Portfolio. Among its activities are (a) involvement in policy
 decisions on modeling and quantification of risk measurements; and (b)
 providing an interpretation and assessment of asset-related risks, with a
 particular focus on market-related risks. Further, the subcommittee is
 responsible for coordinating on a regular basis with the Credit Subcommittee
 of the ERC on asset-related credit risks.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Credit Subcommittee: This
 subcommittee develops and implements the metrics and supporting framework for
 allocation of credit risk capacity across major business units, including the
 amount and types of credit exposure.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Operational Risk
 Subcommittee: This subcommittee supports the ERC’s identification,
 measurement, management and oversight of key operational risks through its
 oversight over key operational risk management processes and through its
 review of related operational risk indicators, trends and metrics.
 
 


          In
addition to the above, risk management subcommittees within each of the
Company’s businesses function to ensure that risk is managed in accordance with
the risk limits, guidelines and tolerances that have been allocated to them by
the Company.

Risk Appetite Management

          The
Company’s risk appetite framework guides its strategies relating to, among
other things, capital preservation, earnings volatility, net worth at risk,
operational loss, liquidity standards, capital rating and capital structure,
with the objective of preserving the Company’s capital base. This framework
also addresses the Company’s tolerance to risks from material individual events
(e.g., natural or man-made catastrophes such as terrorism), the Company’s
investment portfolio and realistic disaster scenarios that cross multiple lines
of business and risks related to some or all of the above that may occur
concurrently.

          In
relation to event risk management, the Company establishes net underwriting
limits for individual large events as follows:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 1.
 
 
 The Company
 imposes limits for each peril region/event type at a 1% exceedance
 probability. If the Company was to deploy the full limit, for any given peril
 region/event type, there would be a 1% probability that an event would occur
 during the next year that would result in a net underwriting loss in excess
 of the limit.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 2.
 
 
 The Company
 also imposes limits for each natural catastrophe peril region at a 1% tail
 value at risk (“TVaR”) probability. This statistic indicates the average
 amount of net loss expected to be incurred given that a loss above the 1%
 exceedance probability level has occurred.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 3.
 
 
 The Company
 also imposes limits for certain other event types at a 0.4% exceedance
 probability as described in further detail below. If the Company were to
 deploy the full limit, for any such given event type, there would be a 0.4%
 probability that an event would occur during the next year that would result
 in a net underwriting loss in excess of the limit.
 
 


          For
planning purposes and to calibrate risk tolerances for business to be written
from September 30, 2011 through September 30, 2012, the Company set its
underwriting limits as a percent of September 30, 2011 Tangible Shareholders’
Equity (hereafter, “Tangible Shareholders’ Equity”). Tangible Shareholders’
Equity is defined as Total Shareholders’ Equity less Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets and gives effect for
the exercise of the Company’s contingent put option which resulted in the
issuance of $350.0 million of preference ordinary shares in October 2011. For
further information see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Contingent Capital.”
These limits may be recalibrated, from time to time, to reflect material changes
in Total Shareholders’ Equity that may occur after September 30, 2011, at the
discretion of management and as overseen by the Board.

19




          Tier
I event types (“Tier 1 Events”), which include natural catastrophes, terrorism
and other realistic disaster scenarios, and Tier 2 event types (“Tier 2
Events”), which include country risk, longevity risk and pandemic risk, are
internal risk classifications for the purposes of defining the Company’s risk
tolerances. In determining Tier 1 and Tier 2 Events the Company considers such
factors as: 


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Anticipated
 risk adjusted returns;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Strategic
 risk preferences;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Relativity
 to peers;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Shareholder
 expectations;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Robustness
 of exposure assessment methodology; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Projected
 enterprise loss potential.
 
 


          Per
event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limits for Tier 1 Events are set
at a level not to exceed approximately 15% of Tangible Shareholders’ Equity. 

          Per
event 1% TVaR underwriting limits for certain peak natural catastrophe peril
regions approximate 20% of Tangible Shareholders’ Equity. 1% TVaR underwriting
limits for non-peak natural catastrophe peril regions are set below the per
event 1% TVaR limits described above. 

          The
Company sets separate limits for North Atlantic Windstorm as events within the
Atlantic Basin have the potential to cross multiple countries for which
separate underwriting limits are established. In particular, per event 1%
exceedance probability and per event 1% TVaR underwriting limits for North
Atlantic Windstorm are set at a level not to exceed approximately 16.5% and
22.5 % of Tangible Shareholders’ Equity, respectively, of which no more
than 15% and 20% of such exposures, respectively, can arise from U.S. Windstorm,
the latter being deemed a Tier 1 Event. 

          Per
event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limits for Tier 2 Events are set
at a level not to exceed 7.5% of Tangible Shareholders’ Equity.

          Per
event 0.4% exceedance probability underwriting limits for Tier 2 Events are set
at a level not to exceed 15% of Tangible Shareholders’ Equity. The 0.4%
exceedance probability limit is used for Tier 2 Events rather than a TVaR
measure due to the difficulty in estimating the full distribution of outcomes
in the extreme tail of the distribution for these risk types as required for
the TVaR measure.

          In
all instances, the above referenced underwriting limits reflect pre-tax losses
net of reinsurance and include inwards and outwards reinstatement premiums
related to the specific events being measured. The limits are not net of
underwriting profits expected to be generated in the absence of catastrophic
loss activity.

          In
setting underwriting limits, the Company also considers such factors as:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Correlation
 of underwriting risk with other risks (e.g., asset/investment risk,
 operational risk, etc.);
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Model risk
 and robustness of data;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Geographical
 concentrations;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Exposures at
 lower return periods;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Expected
 payback period associated with losses;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Projected
 share of industry loss; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Annual
 aggregate losses at a 1% exceedance probability and at a 1% TVaR level on
 both a peril region/risk type basis as well as at the portfolio level.
 
 


          Loss
exposure estimates for all event risks are derived from a combination of
commercially available and internally developed models together with the
judgment of management, as overseen by the Board. Actual incurred losses may
vary materially from the Company’s estimates. Factors that can cause a
deviation between estimated and actualized loss potential include:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Inaccurate
 assumption of event frequency and severity;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Inaccurate
 or incomplete data;
 
 

20







 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Changing
 climate conditions that may add to the unpredictability of frequency and
 severity of natural catastrophes in certain parts of the world and create
 additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Future
 possible increases in property values and the effects of inflation that may
 increase the severity of catastrophic events to levels above the modeled
 levels;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Natural
 catastrophe models that incorporate and are critically dependent on
 meteorological, seismological and other earth science assumptions and related
 statistical relationships that may not be representative of prevailing
 conditions and risks, and may therefore misstate how particular events
 actually materialize, causing a material deviation between forecasted and
 actual damages associated with such events; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 A change in
 the judicial climate.
 
 


          For
the above and other reasons, the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes
and other event types are inherently unpredictable and it is difficult to
estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. As a
consequence, there is material uncertainty around the Company’s ability to
measure exposures associated with individual events and combinations of events.
This uncertainty could cause actual exposures and losses to deviate from those
amounts estimated, which in turn can create a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition and results of operations and may result in
substantial liquidation of investments, possibly at a loss, and outflows of cash
as losses are paid.

          For
a further discussion on risk appetite management see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Other Key Focuses of Management.”

Impact of ERM Processes

          The
Company believes that its ERM processes improve the quality and timeliness of
strategic decisions, enhance the integration of strategic initiatives with the
risks related to such initiatives and act as catalysts to improve risk
awareness and informed action by and across the Company. The Company believes
that the integration of ERM with existing business processes and controls
improves the quality of strategic decisions, optimizes the risk/reward
characteristics of business strategies, and enhances the Company’s overall risk
management culture.

          In
addition, the Company’s ERM processes complement the Company’s overall internal
control framework by helping to manage the complexity that is inherent within
an organization of the Company’s size, the variety of its businesses and
investment activities and geographical reach. However, internal controls and
ERM can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that control
objectives will be met. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss
remains in spite of the Company’s ERM activities. An investor should carefully
consider the risks and all information set forth in this report including the
discussion included in Item 1A “Risk Factors,” Item 7A, “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.”

21




REGULATION

          The
Company’s operating subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision in
each of the jurisdictions where they are domiciled and licensed to conduct
business. Generally, regulatory authorities can have broad supervisory and
administrative powers over such matters as licenses, fitness of management,
standards of solvency, material transactions between affiliates, premium rates,
policy forms, investments, security deposits, methods of accounting, form and
content of financial statements, reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses, reinsurance, minimum capital and surplus requirements and/or risk
based capital standards, dividends and other distributions to shareholders,
periodic examinations and annual and other report filings. In general, such
regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders.

Bermuda Operations

          The
Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (the “Act”),
regulates the Company’s (re)insurance operating subsidiaries in Bermuda, and it
provides that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within
Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the
“BMA”) under the Act. The Act does not distinguish between insurers and
reinsurers and the defined term “Insurance business” in the Act includes
reinsurance business.

          The
Act imposes on Bermuda (re)insurance companies, solvency and liquidity
standards, certain restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends and
distributions, certain restrictions on the reduction of statutory capital,
auditing and reporting requirements, and grants the BMA powers to supervise,
investigate and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. Significant
requirements include the appointment of an independent auditor, the appointment
of a principal representative and a loss reserve specialist for general
business and an actuary for long-term business. Class 4 (re)insurers are
required to prepare and file with the BMA audited annual financial statements
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”) or International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The BMA
publishes on its website each such Class 4 (re)insurer’s GAAP or IFRS audited
financial statements. In addition to the audited GAAP or IFRS financial
statements, Class 4 (re)insurers are required to prepare and file with the BMA
statutory financial statements which are not prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The statutory financial statements and statutory financial return do not form
part of the public records maintained by the BMA and the filing of the Annual
Statutory Financial Return with the BMA. The Supervisor of Insurance is the
chief administrative officer under the Act.

          A
(re)insurer engaged in general business is required to maintain the value of
its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant
liabilities. 

          Currently, all
Class 4 general business (re)insurers are required to maintain available statutory capital and
surplus at a level equal to or in excess of their enhanced capital requirement
(“ECR”). The applicable ECR is established by reference to either The Bermuda
Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”), which employs a standard mathematical
model that can relate more accurately the risks taken on by (re)insurers to the
capital that is dedicated to their business or a BMA-approved internal capital
model. Beginning with the 2011 financial year end statutory filings, Class E long-term
insurers will be required to maintain available statutory capital and surplus
at a level equal to or in excess of an ECR which is established by reference
to either the BSCR for long-term insurers model or a BMA-approved internal
capital model.

          Under
the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, a Bermuda company may not declare
or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus if there
are reasonable grounds for believing that: (a) the company is, or would after
the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (b) the
realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than its liabilities.
For further information see Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, “Statutory Financial Data.”

          All
Bermuda (re)insurers must comply with the BMA’s Insurance Code of Conduct
(“ICIC”), which came into force on July 1, 2011. The ICIC establishes duties,
requirements and standards to be complied with under the Act. Failure to comply
with the requirements of the ICIC will be a factor taken into account by the
BMA in determining whether a (re)insurer is conducting its business in a sound
and prudent manner under the Act. Under the provisions of the Act, the BMA may,
from time to time, conduct “on site” visits at the offices of the (re)insurers
it regulates.

          The
Insurance Amendment (No. 3) Act 2010 came into force on December 31, 2010 and
created five new classes of long-term insurance licenses: Class A – Class E.
Prior to the enactment of this amendment, a (re)insurer carrying on long-term
insurance was registered simply as a “long-term” (re)insurer. Existing
long-term insurers were required to re-register under the appropriate new
classification system. Effective December 31, 2011, further amendments were
made to the Act to extend enhanced solvency reporting 

22




requirements to Class E
(re)insurers. Class E insurers are now required to prepare and file with the
BMA, in addition to statutory financial statements, financial statements
prepared in accordance with GAAP or IFRS.

          Amendments
made in 2010 to the Act provide for written notification to be made to the BMA
with respect to a person who becomes a holder of at least 10%, 20%, 33% or 50%
of the voting shares of an insurer whose shares or the shares of its parent
company are traded on any stock exchange which is recognized by the BMA for
this purpose within 45 days of becoming such a shareholder controller. Where it
appears to the BMA that a person who is a controller of any description is not
or is no longer a fit and proper person to be such a controller, it may serve
him with a written notice of objection to his continuing as a controller of the
(re)insurer. Also, a (re)insurer must provide written notice to the BMA that a
person has become, or ceased to be, a controller or officer of a (re)insurer
within 45 days of becoming aware of such fact. An officer in relation to a
(re)insurer includes a director, chief executive or senior executive performing
duties of underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance, internal audit,
finance or investment matters. 

          All
registered (re)insurers are required to give notice to the BMA of certain
measures that are likely to be of material significance to the BMA in the
discharge of its functions under the Act. A material change includes (i) the
transfer or acquisition of insurance business being part of a scheme falling
under section 25 of the Act or section 99 of the Bermuda Companies Act 1981;
(ii) the amalgamation with or acquisition of another firm; (iii) engaging in
non-insurance business and activities related thereto where such business is
not ancillary to its (re)insurance business; and (iv) engaging in unrelated
business that is retail business.

          In
March 2011, the Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966 was amended to
extend the period from March 28, 2016 to March 31, 2035 for which the Minister
of Finance may grant an assurance to an exempted undertaking, (which includes
Bermuda exempted companies, permit companies, partnerships and unit trusts)
that it will not be liable to pay certain taxes. These include any taxes
computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or
appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax.

United States

          Within
the United States, the Company’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are
subject to regulation and supervision by their respective states of
incorporation and by other jurisdictions in which they do business. The methods
of regulation vary, but in general have their source in statutes that delegate
regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The regulation and
supervision relate primarily to approval of policy forms and rates, the
standards of solvency that must be met and maintained including risk-based
capital standards, material transactions between an insurer and its affiliates,
the licensing of insurers, agents and brokers, restrictions on insurance policy
terminations, the nature of and limitations on the amount of certain investments,
restrictions and limitations on dividends paid to shareholders, limitations on
the net amount of insurance of a single risk compared to the insurer’s surplus,
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, methods of accounting,
collateral requirements to obtain surplus credit for ceded reinsurance assets,
periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of
insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition
required to be filed, and reserves for unearned premiums, losses, expenses and
other obligations. All transactions between or among the insurance and
reinsurance company subsidiaries must be fair and equitable. In general, such
regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders.

          Regulations
generally require insurance and reinsurance companies to furnish information to
their domestic state insurance department concerning activities that may
materially affect the operations, management or financial condition and solvency
of the company. Regulations vary from state to state but generally require that
each primary insurance company obtain a license or certificate of authority
from the department of insurance of a state to conduct business in that state.
An insurer may also earn accreditation as an approved surplus lines insurer in
order to conduct business on an excess & surplus insurance basis within a
particular state. A reinsurance company is not generally required to have an
insurance license to reinsure a U.S. ceding company from outside the United
States. However, for a U.S. ceding company to obtain financial statement credit
for reinsurance ceded, the reinsurer must obtain an insurance license or
achieve accredited status from the cedant’s state of domicile or another U.S.
state with equivalent insurance regulation, or must post collateral to support
the liabilities ceded. In addition, regulations for reinsurers vary somewhat
from primary insurers in that the form and rate of reinsurance contracts and
the market conduct of reinsurers are not subject to regulator approval.

          The
Company’s U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are required to file
detailed annual and, in most states, quarterly reports with state insurance
regulators in each of the states in which they are licensed or accredited. Such
annual and quarterly reports are required to be prepared on a calendar year
basis. In addition, the U.S. insurance subsidiaries’ operations and accounts
are subject to financial condition and market conduct examination at regular
intervals by state regulators. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company’s U.S.
insurance subsidiaries were required to comply with expanded state model audit
laws which require the filing of a Management’s Report of Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. The report provides management’s assertion that it has
responsibility for establishing and maintaining a system of adequate internal
controls over statutory financial reporting, and provides management’s
assessment that the system is effective. In addition, these laws also expanded
the governance requirements of the insurance subsidiaries.

          Statutory
surplus is an important measure utilized by the regulators and rating agencies
to assess the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries’ ability to support
business operations and provide dividend capacity. The Company’s U.S. insurance


23




subsidiaries are subject to
various state statutory and regulatory restrictions that limit the amount of
dividends that may be paid, within any twelve-month period, from earned surplus
without prior approval from regulatory authorities. These restrictions differ
by state, but are generally based on a calculation of the lesser of 10% of
statutory surplus or 100% of ‘adjusted net investment income’ to the extent
that it has not previously been distributed.

          The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) promulgated, and
all states have adopted, Risk-Based Capital (“RBC”) standards for property and
casualty companies and life insurance companies as a means of monitoring
certain aspects affecting the overall financial condition of insurance
companies. RBC is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory
surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. The NAIC’s RBC Model
Law provides for four incremental levels of regulatory attention for insurers
whose surplus is below the calculated RBC target. These levels of attention
range in severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for corrective
action to actually placing the insurer under regulatory control. The Company’s
current RBC ratios for its U.S. subsidiaries are satisfactory and such ratios
are not expected to result in any adverse regulatory action. The Company is not
aware of any such actions relative to it.

          While
the federal government currently does not directly regulate the insurance
business in the U.S. (other than for flood, nuclear and reinsurance of losses
from terrorism), federal legislation and administrative policies can affect the
insurance industry.

          In
July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(“Dodd-Frank”) was passed into law. Dodd-Frank requires the creation of a
Federal Insurance Office within the Treasury Department that will be focused on
national coordination of the insurance sector, systemic risk mitigation and
international regulatory cooperation. Although the Federal Insurance Office
currently does not directly regulate the insurance industry, under Dodd-Frank
it has the power to preempt state insurance regulations that are inconsistent
with international agreements regarding insurance regulation, subject to
certain exceptions. In addition, Dodd-Frank provides that the Federal Insurance
Office must submit a report to Congress on improving U.S. insurance regulation,
which must cover the feasibility of future federal regulation of the U.S.
insurance industry.

          The
federal government has also undertaken initiatives in several areas that may
impact the insurance industry including tort reform, corporate governance and
the taxation of insurance companies. In addition, legislation has been
introduced from time to time in recent years that, if enacted, could result in
the federal government assuming a more direct role in the regulation of the
insurance industry, primarily as respects federal licensing in lieu of state
licensing.

Other International Operations

          A
substantial portion of the Company’s property and casualty insurance business
and a majority of its life reinsurance business are carried on in countries
other than Bermuda and the United States. The degree of regulation in foreign
jurisdictions can vary. Generally, the Company’s subsidiaries must satisfy
local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to
subsidiaries of the Company are subject to modification or revocation for cause
by such authorities. The Company’s subsidiaries could be prevented, for cause,
from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.
While each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing and financial
reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ
substantially. Key areas where country regulations may differ include: (i) the
type of financial reports to be filed; (ii) a requirement to use local
intermediaries; (iii) the amount of reinsurance permissible; (iv) the scope of
any regulation of policy forms and rates; and (v) the type and frequency of
regulatory examinations.

          In
addition to these requirements, the Company’s foreign operations are also
regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, amount and type of
security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of local
investment and limitations on the share of profits to be returned to
policyholders on participating policies. For further information see Item 8,
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Statutory Financial Data.”

European Union

          Financial
services including insurance, reinsurance and trading in the U.K. are regulated
by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). The FSA’s Handbook of Rules and
Guidance (the “FSA Rules”) covers all aspects of regulation including capital
adequacy, financial and non-financial reporting and certain activities of
U.K.-regulated firms. The Company’s subsidiaries carrying out regulated
activities in the U.K. comply with the FSA Rules. The Company’s Lloyd’s
managing agency, its managed syndicates and its associated corporate capital
vehicles are subject to additional Lloyd’s requirements.

          FSA
regulations also impact the Company as “controller” (an FSA defined term) of
its U.K. regulated subsidiaries. Through the FSA’s Approved Persons regime,
certain employees and directors are subject to regulation by the FSA of their
fitness and certain employees are individually registered at Lloyd’s.

          The
Company’s network of offices in the European Union consists mainly of branches
of U.K. as well as Irish (regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland) companies
that are principally regulated under European Directives from their home
states, the U.K. and Ireland, rather than by each individual jurisdiction.
Company law in the U.K. and Ireland prohibits the Company’s U.K. and Irish
entities from declaring a dividend to their respective shareholders unless the
applicable entity has “profits available for distribution.” 

24




The determination of whether
a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated
realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the U.K. and Irish
insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a general
insurer’s ability to declare a dividend, the regulatory rules require
maintenance of each insurance company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction
and, in addition, regulatory approval must be sought in advance of paying a
distribution by an Irish or U.K. regulated company. In addition, as an Irish
public limited company, XL-Ireland is also subject to additional reporting
requirements under Irish company law.

          An
E.U. directive covering the capital adequacy and risk management of, and
regulatory reporting for, insurers, known as Solvency II, was adopted by the
European Parliament in April 2009. Insurers and reinsurers within the European
Economic Area (“EEA”) will need to be compliant with Solvency II by January 1,
2014, although they may need to demonstrate to their regulators certain
elements of the requirements are in place in advance, particularly when
selecting internal model approval at the outset. Solvency II presents a number
of risks to XL’s European operations. Insurers across Europe are liaising
closely with the regulators and undertaking a significant amount of work to
develop their internal capital models and to ensure that they will meet the new
requirements. This may divert resources from other business-related tasks.
Final Solvency II guidance has yet to be published; consequently the Company’s
implementation plans are based on its current understanding of the Solvency II
requirements which may change. Increases in capital requirements as a result of
Solvency II may be required and may impact the Company’s results of operations.

Swiss Operations

          In
Switzerland, the Company’s operations are regulated under the Insurance
Supervision Act of December 17, 2004. Both Insurance and Reinsurance operations
are supervised under this Act. Reinsurance branches of foreign legal entities
are not regulated. Insurance branches of foreign entities are subject to
limited regulations. Supervision in Switzerland is exercised by the Federal
Financial Market Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”). The supervisory regime
currently comprises both Solvency I requirements and Solvency II type
requirements (“Swiss Solvency Test”), the latter of which impose higher capital
requirements, with which the entities operating in Switzerland comply.
Furthermore, direct insurers and insurance branches operating in Switzerland
have to comply with “tied assets” requirements.

          FINMA
may call for supervision of an “Insurance group,” based on certain qualitative
and quantitative standards. XL’s operations in Switzerland are currently not
subject to this “Group supervision.” XL Company Switzerland GmbH, an
intermediary holding company, is consequently not subject to FINMA regulations.

          In
its opinion dated July 2010, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions
Authority (“EIOPA”) made a proposal to the European Commission that the Swiss
supervisory regime (together with the regime in Bermuda) should be considered
in the first wave of the third country equivalence assessment with regard to
all three articles on equivalence (Art. 172 Equivalence for reinsurance
supervision, Art. 227 Calculating group solvability, Art. 260 Equivalence for third
country group supervision).

25




EMPLOYEES

          At
December 31, 2011, the Company had 3,818 employees. At that date, 233 of the
Company’s employees were represented by workers’ councils and 402 of the
Company’s employees were subject to industry-wide collective bargaining
agreements in several countries outside the United States.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

          The
public can read and copy any materials the Company files with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at the SEC’s Public Reference Room
at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public can obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy
and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including
the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC’s
website is http://www.sec.gov.

          The
Company’s website address is http://www.xlgroup.com.
The information contained on the Company’s website is not incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other of the Company’s
documents filed with or furnished to the SEC.

          The
Company makes available free of charge, including through the Company’s
website, the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable
after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

          The
Company adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters
for each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation
Committee, the Nominating, Governance and External Affairs Committee and the
Risk and Finance Committee, as well as a Code of Conduct and a related
Compliance Program. Each of these documents is posted on the Company’s website
at http://www.xlgroup.com, and
each is available in print to any shareholder who requests it by writing to the
Company at Investor Relations Department, XL Group plc, Seaview House, 70 Seaview Avenue, Stamford, CT 06902-6040 United States of America.

          The
Company intends to post on its website any amendment to, or waiver of, a
provision of its Code of Conduct that applies to its Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller or persons performing similar
functions and that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition set
forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.

          The
Company intends to use its website as a means of disclosing material non-public
information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation
FD. Such disclosures will be included on the website in the “Investor
Relations” section. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of the
Company’s website, in addition to following its press releases, SEC filings and
public conference calls and webcasts.

26







 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 ITEM 1A.
 
 
 RISK
 FACTORS
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
  
 
 


          Any
of the following risk factors could have a significant or material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity,
in addition to the other information contained in this report. Additional risks
not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The occurrence of
disasters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, cashflows and prospects.

          We
have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made
disasters and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various
events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, explosions,
severe weather, fires, war and acts of terrorism. Changing climate conditions
may add to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain
parts of the world and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and
exposures. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently
unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with
statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will
generate.

          The
occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in
substantial volatility in our financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows for the fiscal quarter or year in which a catastrophic event occurs,
as well as subsequent fiscal periods, and could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to write
new business. This risk is exacerbated due to accounting principles and rules that
do not permit (re)insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they
occur. We expect that future possible increases in the values and
concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in
cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of catastrophic events in
the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophic events,
a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones and lines of
business and the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our
estimates, in each case potentially having a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, while
we may, depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe reinsurance and
retrocessional protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in
any given period could result in losses that exceed such reinsurance and
retrocessional protection. This could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations and may result in substantial
liquidation of investments, possibly at a loss, and outflows of cash as losses
are paid.

The failure of any
of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
and/or liquidity.

          We
seek to limit our loss exposure by, among other things, writing a number of our
reinsurance or retrocession contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to
maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones,
limiting program size for each client and prudently underwriting each program
written. In addition, in the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek
to use per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of
losses from any one event. We cannot be sure that all of these loss limitation
methods will have the precise risk management impact intended. For instance,
although we also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification,
geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments,
including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a
particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Underwriting involves the
exercise of considerable judgment and the making of important assumptions about
matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which
historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient
guidance. The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies
that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. Also, we cannot provide assurance that
various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from
coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner that we intend
and disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may arise, which
could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

The insurance and
reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and we may experience periods
with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.

          The
insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical,
characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess
underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted
favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often followed by an
increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital
provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing
insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these
factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable
policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting
services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and
severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of
the insurance and reinsurance industries significantly.

A downgrade or
potential downgrade in our financial strength and credit ratings by one or more
rating agencies could materially and negatively impact our business, financial
condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.

          As
our ability to underwrite business is dependent upon the quality of our claims
paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating
agencies, a downgrade by any of these institutions could cause our competitive
position in the insurance and reinsurance industry to suffer and make it more
difficult for us to market our products.

27




          A
downgrade below “A–” of our principal insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries by either Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) or A.M.
Best Company (“A.M. Best”),
which is two notches below the current S&P and A.M. Best financial strength
ratings of “A” (Stable) for our principal insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries, may trigger termination provisions in a significant amount of our
assumed reinsurance agreements and may potentially require us to return
unearned premium to cedants. Whether a client would exercise its termination
rights after such a downgrade would likely depend on, among other things, the
reasons for the downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, prevailing market
conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability
of replacement reinsurance coverage. Based on premium value, approximately 70%
of our in force reinsurance contracts at January 1, 2012 contained
provisions allowing clients to terminate those contracts upon a decline in our
ratings to below “A–.” In the event of such a downgrade, we cannot
predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such termination
rights or the extent to which any such terminations would have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows
or future prospects or the market price for our securities. A downgrade could
also result in a substantial loss of business for us as ceding companies and
brokers that place such business may move to other insurers and reinsurers with
higher ratings and the loss of key employees. In addition, due to collateral
posting requirements under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility
agreements, such a downgrade may require the posting of cash collateral in
support of certain “in use” portions of these facilities (see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Part II, Item 7 of this report).
Specifically, a downgrade below “A–” by A.M. Best would constitute
an event of default under the Company’s three largest credit facilities
and may trigger such collateral requirements. In certain limited instances, such
downgrades may require us to return cash or assets to counterparties or to settle
derivative and/or other transactions with the respective counterparties.

          In
addition to the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance and
reinsurance subsidiaries, various rating agencies also publish credit ratings
for XL-Cayman. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet
the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner are part of our overall
funding profile and affect our ability to access certain types of liquidity.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations and cash flows in a number of
ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially
increasing the cost of debt or requiring us to post collateral.

The recent
downgrade, or any future downgrading, of the United States’ credit rating could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

          Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the
United States from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. In addition, Moody’s
Investor Services lowered its outlook on U.S. debt to negative upon affirming
its AAA rating following passage of legislation that raised the debt ceiling.
Because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit rating actions with
respect to U.S. government obligations, the impact of these actions or any
further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating by any
rating agency is inherently unpredictable. Such actions could have material
adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions on the United
States and throughout the world. In turn, this could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,
including with respect to assets in our investment portfolio, as well as assets
in trusts or other collateral arrangements posted by or to us. In addition,
further downgrades of the United States’ credit rating could create broader
financial turmoil and uncertainty, and could negatively impact the average
credit rating quality of our investment portfolio. 

The sovereign debt
crisis in Europe and concerns regarding the instability of Euro-zone countries
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

          Global markets and economic conditions
have been negatively impacted by the uncertainty relating to the level of sovereign debt of numerous E.U. member states and the
ability of those countries to service their sovereign debt obligations. This uncertainty has and could in the future result in
volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of E.U. member states and on other European-related corporate debt held within our investment
portfolio and could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the E.U. and throughout the world.
In addition, continuing downgrades of sovereign debt could bring down the average credit rating quality of our investment portfolio.

          The interdependencies among European
economies and financial institutions and between such European economies and financial institutions and those of the rest of the
world have also exacerbated concern regarding the stability of European financial markets generally and certain institutions in
particular.  One or more Euro-zone countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Monetary Union, or
the Euro as the single currency of the Euro-zone could cease to exist if the European Monetary Union were dissolved. Any of these
developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could lead to severe economic recession or
depression. If one or more countries abandon the Euro or the European Monetary Union dissolves, it may result in uncertainty with
respect to the terms, value or enforceability of these bonds, instruments or contracts, which could result in a material loss to
us. Similarly, if a country leaving the Euro-zone imposes currency controls, such controls may have a material adverse impact on
the value of and our ability to withdraw capital from a company domiciled in that country.

28




          Given the extent of our European operations,
including that XL-Ireland is domiciled in Ireland, investment holdings and clients and counterparties, persistent volatility in
the European financial markets, or the failure of any significant European financial institution arising from the wider implications
of the crisis, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, investment portfolio,
liquidity or financial performance. If the current Euro-zone sovereign debt crisis persists or worsens, it could lead to further
political uncertainty, material changes to tax policies of Euro-zone countries, financial turmoil and social unrest, affecting
the successful implementation of stability measures. Sovereigns, financial institutions and companies may become subject to liquidity
shortages and be unable to obtain refinancing or new funding, leading to an increased risk of a default on their existing debt,
and measures to reduce debt levels and fiscal deficits could result in a further slowdown of or negative economic growth.

          For a discussion of the risks to our
business during or following a financial market disruption and risks to our investment portfolio, see the risk factor entitled
“We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and
foreign exchange rates as well as other investment risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition
or cash flows.” For a discussion of risks associated with the United States’ credit rating, see the risk factor entitled
“The recent downgrade, or any future downgrading, of the United States’ credit rating could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”


Our efforts to
develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and
may create enhanced risks.

          A
number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new
products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the
following efforts, from time to time, to protect or profitably grow market
share:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 We may develop products
 that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or
 coverage terms.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 We may refine our
 underwriting processes.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 We may seek to expand
 distribution channels.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 We may focus on geographic
 markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively
 little or no market share.
 
 


          We
may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted
markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced
risks. Among other risks:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Demand for new products or
 in new markets may not meet our expectations.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 To the extent we are able
 to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may
 change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as
 sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products.
 This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 Efforts to develop new
 products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution
 channel conflict.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 In connection with the
 conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders’
 pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease,
 the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 To develop new products or
 markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures,
 which may also negatively impact results in the near term.
 
 

29




          If
our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not
successful, our results could be materially and adversely affected.

We are exposed to
significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit
spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates as well as other investment
risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.

          Our
operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio.
Our assets are invested by a number of investment management service providers
under the direction of the Company’s management within the Investment Group in
accordance, in general, with detailed investment guidelines set by us under the
oversight of the RFC, and established in accordance with our SAA framework for
our P&C operations and Life operations. Although our investment policies
stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity,
our investments are subject to market-wide risks, as noted below, and
fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. We are
exposed to significant capital markets risks related to changes in interest
rates, credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, equity prices and foreign
currency exchange rates. If significant continued market volatility, changes in
interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing
transparency, a reduction in market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and
the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar
occur, individually or in tandem, this could have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows
through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions.
Levels of write-down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent
to sell securities that have declined in value as well as actual losses as a
result of defaults or deterioration in estimates of cash flows. We periodically
review our investment portfolio structure and strategy. If, as a result of such
review, we determine to reposition or realign portions of the investment
portfolio and sell securities in an unrealized loss position, we will incur an
other than temporary impairment charge. Any such charge may have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and business.

          For
the year ended December 31, 2011, as a result of the prolonged and continued
volatility and disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, we incurred
realized and unrealized investment losses, as described in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under
Part II, Item 7 of this report. We continue to closely monitor current market
conditions and evaluate the long term impact of this market volatility on all
of our investment holdings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur
additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial
condition and business.

          Our
exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash
flow variability of fixed income instruments that are associated with changes
in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive
instruments, such as fixed income securities, which have been and may continue
to be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from central bank
monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions
and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase
the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, offset by our
ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a
decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of
our investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested.
We maintain a P&C investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has
a weighted average duration that is determined in accordance with its SAA
Benchmark based on a dynamic financial analysis of investment assets and
liabilities, and that is intended to maximize the Company’s enterprise value
subject to accounting, regulatory, capital and risk tolerances. The SAA
Benchmarks and portfolios supporting our Life operations are rebalanced
regularly to reflect an explicit asset-liability management process. However,
for both the P&C and Life investment portfolios our estimates of the time
and size of estimated loss payment profile may be inaccurate and we may be
forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover
liabilities. We are exposed to interest rate risk relative to our liabilities.

          Our
exposure to credit spread risk relates primarily to the market price associated
with changes in prevailing market credit spreads and the impact on our holdings
of spread products such as corporate and structured credit and credit-sensitive
government-related securities. Approximately 2.3% of our aggregate fixed income
portfolio consists of below investment-grade high yield fixed income
securities. These securities have a higher degree of credit or default risk and
a greater exposure to credit spread risk. Certain sectors within the investment
and below investment grade fixed income market, such as structured and
corporate credit, may be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market
disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk
and liquidity of our invested assets in general and those impacted by recent
credit market issues specifically, it is possible that, in periods of economic
weakness or periods of turmoil in capital markets, we may experience default
losses in both our investment grade and below investment grade corporate and structured
credit holdings. This may result in a material reduction of net income, capital
and cash flows.

          We
invest a portion of our investment portfolio in common stock or equity-related
securities, including alternative funds and private equity funds. The value of
these assets fluctuates, due to changes in the equity and credit markets along
with other factors. In times of economic weakness, the market value and
liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital and
cash flows. In addition, certain of the products offered by our Life operations
offer fixed guaranteed returns while debt and equity yields may continue to
decline. In addition, the amount of earnings from alternative funds and private
investment funds are not earned evenly across the year, or even from year to
year. As a result, the amount of earnings that we record from these investments
may vary 

30




substantially from quarter
to quarter. The timing of distributions from such private investment funds
depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments. The
ability of an alternative fund to satisfy any redemption request from its
investors depends on the underlying liquidity of the alternative fund’s
investments. As a result, earnings, distributions and redemptions from these
two asset classes may be more difficult to predict.

          The
functional currencies of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries
include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss franc and the Canadian
dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional currencies may
materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in
currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes us to
changes in currency exchange rates.

          In
addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in
order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations
regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as
part of our risk management process. While we utilize derivative instruments
such as futures, options and foreign currency forward contracts to, among other
things, manage our foreign currency exposure, it is possible that these
instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a substantial portion of our
foreign exchange rate risk, which could adversely impact the Company’s results
of operations.

Certain of our
investments may be illiquid or are in asset classes that have been experiencing
significant market valuation fluctuations.

          We
hold certain investments that may lack liquidity or for which the observability
of prices or inputs may be reduced in periods of market dislocation, such as
non-agency residential mortgage-backed and collateralized debt obligations
securities. Even some of our high quality assets have been more illiquid during
periods of challenging market conditions. Generally, securities classified as
Level 3 pursuant to the fair value hierarchy set forth in authoritative
accounting guidance over fair value measurements may be less liquid, may be
more difficult to value, requiring significant judgment, and may be more likely
to result in sales at materially different amounts than the fair values
determined by management.

          If
we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash
requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with
certain of our reinsurance contracts, credit agreements, derivative
transactions or our invested portfolio, we may have difficulty selling these
investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we
otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.

          The
reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, in certain
circumstances, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, does not
necessarily reflect the lowest current market bid price for the asset. If we
were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be
no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have
recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices,
particularly at times of extreme market illiquidity. Any such sales could
adversely impact the Company’s financial position.

If actual claims
exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated levels of loss
reserves are necessary, our financial results and cash flows could be adversely
affected.

          Our
results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess
accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and
reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense
(“LAE”) liabilities, which are estimates of future payments of reported and
unreported claims for losses and related expenses with respect to insured
events that have occurred. The process of establishing reserves for property
and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability
as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Actuarial estimates
of unpaid loss and LAE liabilities are subject to potential errors of
estimation, which could be significant, due to the fact that the ultimate
disposition of claims incurred prior to the date of such estimation, whether
reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that have not yet
occurred. Examples of these events include the accuracy of the factual
information on which the estimates were based, especially as this develops,
jury decisions, court interpretations, legislative changes, changes in the
medical condition of claimants, public attitudes, and economic conditions such
as inflation.

          Recent
deficit spending by governments in the Company’s major markets exposes the
Company to heightened risk of inflation. Inflation in relation to medical
costs, construction costs and tort issues in particular impact the property and
casualty industry; however, broader market inflation also poses a risk of
increasing overall loss costs. The impact of inflation on loss costs could be
more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered “long tail”
such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to
finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. Changes in the level of
inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of
loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. The estimation of
loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic
conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and
policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures
and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency
of small claims.

          Similarly,
the actual emergence of claims for life business may vary from the assumptions
underlying the policy benefit reserves, in particular, the future assumed
mortality improvements on the blocks of in-payment annuities.

31




          In
relation to previously written financial guarantee business and related
exposures, we establish reserves for losses and LAE on such business based on
management’s best estimate of the ultimate expected incurred losses.
Establishment of such reserves requires the use and exercise of significant
judgment by management, including with respect to estimates regarding the
occurrence and amount of a loss on an insured or reinsured obligation.
Estimates of losses may differ from actual results and such difference may be
material, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of claims are subject
to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events
include changes in the level of interest rates, credit deterioration of insured
and reinsured obligations, and changes in the value of specific assets
supporting insured and reinsured obligations. In general, guarantees on
previously written credit default swaps are exposed to the same risks as noted
above, except in events of default by the guarantor. Credit default swaps,
however, do not qualify for the financial guarantee scope exception under
authoritative accounting guidance over derivative instruments and hedging
activities, and, therefore are reported at fair value with changes in the fair
value included in earnings. Fair values for such swaps are determined based on
methodologies further described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates.” Any estimate of future costs is subject to the
inherent limitation on our ability to predict the aggregate course of future
events. It should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and
LAE will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate.

          We
have an actuarial staff in each of our operating segments and a Chief Actuary
who regularly evaluates the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration
factors that may impact the ultimate losses incurred. Any such evaluation could
result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and
would be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the
estimates are changed. Losses and LAE, to the extent that they exceed the
applicable reserves, are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for unpaid
losses and LAE represents the estimated ultimate losses and LAE less paid
losses and LAE, and comprises case reserves and IBNR. During the loss
settlement period, which can span many years in duration for casualty business,
additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known
and case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in
the overall reserve. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial
methods may require the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward
from time to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be
significantly greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense
reserves.

The effects of
emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.

          As
industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental
conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage
beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims,
such as the effects that recent disruptions in the credit markets could have on
the number and size of reported claims under directors and officers liability
insurance (“D&O”) and professional liability insurance lines of business.
In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after
we have issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the
changes. Historically such claims and coverage issues have occurred at
heightened levels during periods of very soft market conditions which often
reflect an inflection point in the typical cycle of insurance industry market
conditions. In addition, our actual losses may vary materially from our current
estimate of the loss based on a number of factors, including receipt of
additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to
coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in
repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the
full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be
known for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs.

There can be no
assurance as to the effect that governmental and regulatory actions will have
on financial markets generally or on us in particular.

          In
response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial
markets and going concern threats to financial institutions, there have been
numerous regulatory and governmental actions in the United States, the U.K. and
    the Euro-zone among other countries. The purpose of these legislative and
    regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. and international banking systems,
    improve the flow of credit and foster an economic recovery. However, there
    can be no assurance as to the success of such actions or the effect that
    any such governmental actions or future regulatory initiatives may have on
    certain investment instruments in our investment portfolio, or on our competitive
    position, business and financial position. If global economic and market
    conditions remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience
    material adverse impacts on our business operations results and financial
condition.

          For
example, we own a number of Tier 1 and Upper Tier 2 hybrid securities issued by
financial institutions including those based in the U.S., Europe and the U.K.
There is a risk that if the capital positions of financial institutions
deteriorate further government intervention, particularly nationalization of
such institutions, could occur. There is also a risk of regulatory imposed deferral
of coupons or decisions by bank management not to call the capital or defer the
coupon payments. This may result in losses on the hybrid securities we hold.
There is also the risk of further downgrades of these securities as rating
agencies re-evaluate their rating methodologies, which would negatively impact
the regulatory capital of the Life operations.

          In
particular, the current sovereign debt crisis concerning European countries,
including Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, or GIIPS, and related
European financial restructuring efforts, may cause the value of the European
currencies, including the 

32




Euro, to further
deteriorate, which in turn could adversely impact Euro-denominated assets held
in our investment portfolio or our European book of business. In addition, the
European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets, as
well as the widening of bond yield spreads. Rating agency downgrades on
European sovereign debt and growing concern of the potential default of
government issuers or of a possible break-up of the European Union has further
contributed to this uncertainty. Should governments default on their
obligations, there will be a negative impact on both our direct holdings, as
well as on non-government issues and financials held within the country of
default. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations – Balance Sheet Analysis – European
Sovereign Debt Crisis” for an analysis of our fixed maturity portfolio’s
exposure to GIIPS.

We may be unable to
purchase reinsurance and, even if we are able to successfully purchase
reinsurance, we are subject to the possibility of uncollectability. The
impairment of other financial institutions also could adversely affect us.

          We
purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the volatility
that losses impose on our financial condition. Our clients purchase reinsurance
from us to cover part of the risk originally written by them. Retrocessional
reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to another reinsurer, the
retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has
assumed. Reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, does not legally
discharge the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations
to its insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency,
inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements
with us, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on us because we
remain liable to our insureds and reinsureds. At December 31, 2011, we had
approximately $3.9 billion of reinsurance recoverables and reinsurance balances
receivable, net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables. For further information
regarding our reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

          From
time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent us from obtaining the
types and amounts of reinsurance that we consider adequate for our business
needs such that we may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional
reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that we
deem desirable or on terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable.

          We
also have exposure to counterparties in various industries, including banks,
hedge funds and other investment vehicles, and in transactions in addition to
reinsurance agreements, including derivative transactions. Many of these
transactions expose us to credit risk in the event our counterparty fails to
perform its obligations. Even if we are entitled to collateral when a
counterparty defaults, such collateral may be illiquid or proceeds from such
collateral when liquidated may not be sufficient to recover the full amount of
the obligation. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of
secured and unsecured debt instruments and equity securities.

Since we depend on a
few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by
any one of them could adversely affect us.

          We
market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through
insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh & McLennan Companies, AON
Corporation and the Willis Group and their respective subsidiaries each
provided approximately 20%, 20% and 12% respectively, of our gross written
premiums for property and casualty operations for the year ended December 31,
2011. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or
more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our reliance on
brokers subjects us to credit risk.

          In
certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for
policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further
payment to us, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and the
insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts,
whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. In
addition, in accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed
on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in
turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance
from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and
circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails
to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, we might remain
liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that non-payment. Consequently, we
assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers with whom we
transact business. Due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law
governing these types of scenarios and our lack of historical experience with
such risks, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk.

We are subject to a
number of risks associated with our business in emerging markets.

          Our
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business outside the United
States primarily in the U.K., Bermuda, and Europe. We have also continued to
pursue opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as
Asia, Africa and Latin America. In conducting such business we are subject to a
number of significant risks. These risks include restrictions such as price
controls, capital controls, exchange controls, ownership limits and other
restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our
business and our reputation. In addition, some countries, particularly emerging
economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local
expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact
requirements 

33




of the local laws. Failure
to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and
negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our
reputation generally.

          Additional
discussion of the risks associated with our operations in Europe as a result of
the sovereign debt crisis is included in the risk factor entitled “The
sovereign debt crisis in Europe and concerns regarding the instability of
Euro-zone countries could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.” 

Our holding company
structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to
pay dividends, make payments on our debt securities and make other payments.

          As
a holding company with no direct operations or significant assets other than
the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely on investment income, cash
dividends, loans and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to make
principal and interest payments on our debt, to pay operating expenses and
ordinary and preferred shareholder dividends, to make capital investments in
our subsidiaries and to pay certain of our other obligations that may arise
from time to time. We expect future investment income, dividends and other
permitted payments from these subsidiaries to be our principal source of funds
to pay such expenses, preferred and ordinary share dividends and obligations.
The payment of dividends to us by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries
    is regulated under the laws of various jurisdictions including Bermuda, the
    U.K., Ireland and Switzerland and certain insurance statutes of various states
    in the United States in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries
    are licensed to transact business and the other jurisdictions where we have
    regulated subsidiaries. For further information regarding regulatory restrictions
    governing the payment of dividends by the Company’s significant property
    and casualty subsidiaries in Ireland, Bermuda and the U.S., see Item 8, Note
    23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Statutory Financial Data,” and
    Item 1, “Business – Regulation.”

          XL-Ireland
is subject to certain legal constraints that affect its ability to pay
dividends on or redeem or buyback our ordinary shares. While XL-Ireland’s
articles of association authorize its board of directors to declare and pay
dividends as justified from the profits, under Irish law, XL-Ireland may only
pay dividends or buyback or redeem shares using distributable reserves. As of
December 31, 2011, XL-Ireland had $4.1 billion in distributable reserves. In
addition, no dividend or distribution may be made unless the net assets of
XL-Ireland are not less than the aggregate of its share capital plus
undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce XL-Ireland’s
net assets below such aggregate.

          In
addition, XL-Cayman is subject to certain constraints that affect its ability
to pay dividends on its preferred shares. Under Cayman Islands law, XL-Cayman
may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing
that XL-Cayman is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities
as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Also, the terms of
XL-Cayman’s preferred shares prohibit declaring or paying dividends on the
ordinary shares unless full dividends have been declared and paid on the
outstanding preferred shares. In addition, the ability to declare and pay
dividends may be restricted by covenants in our letters of credit and revolving
credit facilities.

We may require additional
capital in the future, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms,
on a timely basis or at all.

          Our
future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to
write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at
levels sufficient to cover our losses. To the extent that the funds generated
by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating
requirements and cover claim payments, or that our capital position is adversely
impacted by mark-to-market changes on the investment portfolio, catastrophe
events or otherwise, we may need to raise additional funds through financings
or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. As a result of the current severe
economic conditions that persist in the capital markets, any future financing
may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our letter
of credit facilities are needed to a significant extent for U.S. cedants, and
are effective for such cedants only if the banks issuing letters of credit are
on the list of NAIC approved banks. If some or all of the issuing banks under
our credit facilities cease to be NAIC approved, whether arising from
macroeconomic or bank specific events, and we are unable to replace non-approved
banks with NAIC approved banks, our letter of credit facility capacity could be
significantly diminished. In addition, in the case of a macroeconomic event,
such as dissolution of the European Monetary Union, the availability of
alternative lending sources may be significantly reduced or non-existent, and
the cost of replacement facilities may be significantly increased or
prohibitive. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to our existing
shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights,
preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities.
Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Competition in the
insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce our operating margins.

          The
insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete on an
international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian, European and other
international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of
which have greater financial and management resources and higher ratings than
we have. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter
the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants
have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance
products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower
premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could
reduce our margins.

34




Operational risks,
including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.

          Operational
risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to
document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization,
failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, failure
to appropriately transition new hires or external events. Areas of operational risk can be heightened in discontinued
or exited business as a result of reduced overall resource allocation and the
loss of relevant knowledge and expertise by departing management. The Company
has exited a number of businesses in recent years, potentially increasing
operational risk in such businesses.

          We
believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and
application systems are critical to our business. Moreover, our information
technology and application systems have been an important part of our
underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also
licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that
we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our
information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended.
An external cyber attack, or any ineffectiveness in or cyber attack on our
internal controls or information technology and application systems could have
a material adverse effect on our business or reputation.

          In
particular, we operate globally, and have two office locations in India that
currently provide large portions of our back office support. Our global
operations present significant operational risk due to the possibility of
disruptions in communication or information processes, whether due to technical
difficulties, power failures or destruction or damage to our offices for any
reason. If any disruption occurs, our business continuity and disaster recovery
plans may not be effective, particularly if natural or man-made catastrophic events
occur, and such disruption could harm our results of operations or our
reputation in the marketplace. 

          In
addition, we have outsourced the day-to-day management, custody and
record-keeping of our investment portfolio to third-party managers and
custodians that we believe to be reputable. A major defect in those investment
managers’ investment management strategy, or decision-making could result in
management distraction and/or significant financial loss. We also rely on a few
brokers for a large portion of our revenues. A major defect in our brokers’,
investment managers’ or custodians’ internal controls or information and
technology systems could result in management distraction or significant
financial loss.

          Any
ineffectiveness in our internal controls, information technology, application
systems, investment management or custody and record keeping could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Unanticipated losses
from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the TRIPRA could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.

          The
U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”), as amended, established the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (“TRIP”), which became effective on November
26, 2002 and was a three-year federal program effective through 2005. On
December 22, 2005, President George W. Bush signed a bill extending TRIA
(“TRIAE”) for two more years, continuing TRIP through 2007. On December 26,
2007, President George W. Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) which further extended TRIP for seven
years until December 31, 2014 and also eliminated the distinction between
foreign and domestic acts of terrorism.

          In
response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance
markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, the TRIP
was created upon the enactment of the TRIA of 2002 to ensure the availability
of commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S. This
law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help
the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to
future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts
be offered by insurers.

          TRIA
voided in force terrorism exclusions as of November 26, 2002 for certified
terrorism on all TRIA specified property and casualty business. TRIA required
covered insurers to make coverage available for certified acts of terrorism on
all new and renewal policies issued after TRIA was enacted. TRIA along with
further extensions to TRIP, as noted above, allows us to assess a premium
charge for terrorism coverage and, if the policyholder declines the coverage or
fails to pay the buy-back premium, certified acts of terrorism may then be
excluded from the policy, subject, however, to state specific requirements.
Terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers’ compensation policies.
Subject to a premium-based deductible and provided that we have otherwise
complied with all the requirements as specified under TRIPRA, we are eligible
for reimbursement by the Federal Government for up to 85% of our covered
terrorism-related losses arising from a certified terrorist attack. Such
payment by the government will, in effect, provide reinsurance protection on a
quota share basis. The maximum liability during a program year, including both
the Federal Government’s and insurers’ shares, is capped on an aggregated basis
at $100 billion. While regulations have been promulgated by the Department of
the Treasury (“Treasury”) requiring that Treasury advise participating
insurers, such as the Company, in advance of reaching the $100 billion aggregate
limit that such aggregate limit could be reached during the program year, there
is a risk that the Company will not be given adequate notice of the potential
exhaustion of that aggregate limit. Accordingly, the Company could overpay with
regard to such losses, and it is unlikely Treasury would reimburse the Company
for such losses; moreover, it is unclear whether the Company, in the event of
an overpayment, would be able to recover the amount of any such overpayment.

35




          We
believe that TRIP and the related legislation have been an effective mechanism
to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme contingent
losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, we cannot
assure you that TRIPRA will be extended beyond 2014, and its expiration or a
significant change in terms could have an adverse effect on us, our clients or
the insurance industry.

The regulatory
regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

          Our
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in 24 countries around the world
as well as in all 50 U.S. states. Our operations in each of these jurisdictions
are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and
regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries
maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet
solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial
condition and restrict payments of dividends, distributions and reductions of
capital in certain circumstances. Statutes, regulations and policies that our
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the
ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make
certain investments and distribute funds.

          In
recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased
federal scrutiny. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The
Dodd-Frank Act requires many federal agencies to adopt new rules and
regulations that will apply to the financial services industry and also calls
for many studies regarding various industry practices. In particular, the
Dodd-Frank Act created a Federal Insurance Office within the Treasury that is focused on national coordination of
the insurance sector, systemic risk mitigation and international regulatory
cooperation. Although the Federal Insurance Office currently does not directly
regulate the insurance industry, under the Dodd-Frank Act it has the power to
preempt state insurance regulations that are inconsistent with international
agreements regarding insurance regulation, subject to certain exceptions. In
addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Federal Insurance Office must
submit a report to Congress on improving U.S. insurance regulation, which must
cover the feasibility of future federal regulation of the U.S. insurance
industry. This study or another among the various studies required by the
legislation could result in additional rulemaking or legislative action, which
could negatively impact our business and financial results. While we have not
yet been required to make material changes to our business or operations as a
result of the Dodd-Frank Act, due to the complexity and broad scope of the
Dodd-Frank Act and the time required for regulatory implementation, it is not
certain what the scope of future rulemaking or interpretive guidance from the
SEC, CFTC or other regulatory agencies may be, and what impact this will have
on our compliance costs, business, operations and profitability.

          In
addition, some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may
alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and
holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is the organization of insurance
regulators from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S.
territories, as well as state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing
laws and regulations.

          In
addition to these proposals and initiatives in the United States, new capital
adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II are in the process
of being implemented throughout the EU, introducing changes to the prudential
regulation of European insurers, with a timeline to achieve full compliance by
January 1, 2014. Similar legislation is also in the process of being developed
or implemented in other jurisdictions, including Canada and Switzerland. In
addition, regulations in countries in which we have operations are working with
the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with
the NAIC) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including
solvency requirements and group supervision. There remains significant
uncertainty as to the impact of these efforts, however, such impacts could
constrain our ability to move capital between subsidiaries or require that
additional capital or security be provided in certain jurisdictions, which may
impact profitability.

          Our
Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries are subject to the BMA’s risk-based
capital standards for (re)insurance companies, which impose required levels of
statutory capital and surplus on our Bermuda-based operating standards. While
our Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries currently have excess capital and
surplus under these requirements, there can be no assurance that such
requirements or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended
in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations.

          We
may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from,
revised statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of our
business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or
exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our
ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or
more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and
other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which we
are, or may become subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or
regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Potential government
intervention in our industry as a result of recent events and instability in
the marketplace for insurance products could hinder our flexibility and
negatively affect the business opportunities that may be available to us in the
market.

          Government
intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created
uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are
generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of
other 

36




constituencies, including
shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact
nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals
could adversely affect our business by, among other things: 


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 providing insurance and
 reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, e.g., the
 creation or expansion of a state or federal catastrophe funds such as those
 in Florida; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 requiring our
 participation in industry pools and guarantee associations 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 expanding the scope of
 coverage under existing policies; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 regulating the terms of
 insurance and reinsurance policies; or 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 disproportionately
 benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.
 
 


          Government
intervention has in the recent past taken the form of financial support of
certain companies in our industry. Governmental support of individual
competitors can lead to increased pricing pressure, a distortion of market
dynamics, and ultimately the prolonging of the current period of soft market
conditions. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and
legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability,
which may result in unexpected claims frequency and severity and delays or
cancelations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers
which could adversely affect our business.

          For
further information regarding government regulation and/or intervention in
response to the financial and credit crises, see risk factor entitled “There
can be no assurance as to the effect that governmental actions will have on
such markets generally or on us in particular” above.

Consolidation in the
insurance industry could adversely impact us.

          Insurance
industry participants may seek to consolidate through mergers and acquisitions.
Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the
already competitive underwriting environment as we would likely experience more
robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. These
consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital
base to negotiate price reductions for our products and services, and reduce
their use of reinsurance, and as such, we may experience rate declines and
possibly write less business.

The loss of one or
more key executives or the inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified
personnel could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.

          Our
success depends on our ability to attract new, highly skilled individuals and
to motivate and retain our existing key executives and qualified personnel. The
loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to attract,
motivate and retain other highly skilled individuals in the future could
adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, we do not
maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees.

          In
addition, certain of our executives who work in our Bermuda operations are not
Bermudian and our success in such operations may depend in part on the
continued services of key employees working in Bermuda. The recently enacted
Incentives for Job Makers Act 2011 (“IJMA”) permits employers to apply to the
Bermuda Government for a designation to allow up to five senior executives at
any one time to make a further application to be exempt from the provisions of
current Bermuda work permit requirements. After ten years, eligible exempted
senior executives may apply for a permanent resident’s certificate. Currently,
non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent
resident certificates) who are not able to avail themselves of the provisions
of the IJMA may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an
appropriate governmental work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed
by the Bermuda government for a specific period of time, upon showing that,
after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or
holder of a permanent resident certificate) is available who meets the minimum
standards reasonably required by an employer with respect to a certain
position. The government of Bermuda places term limits on individuals with work
permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. No assurances can be
given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the
expiration of the relevant term or that key employee status will be granted or
revoked.

A decrease in the
fair values of our reporting units may result in future goodwill impairments.

          When
we acquire an entity, the excess of the purchase price over the net
identifiable assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. We conduct impairment
tests on our reported goodwill at least annually or more frequently if
impairment indicators exist. In performing a goodwill impairment test, we use
various methods and make various assumptions to determine the fair value of our
reporting units, including the determination of expected future cash flows
and/or profitability of such reporting units, and we take into account market
value multiples and/or cash flows of entities that we deem to be comparable in
nature, scope or size to our reporting units. However, expected future cash
flows and/or profitability may be materially and negatively impacted as a
result of, among other things, a decrease in renewal activity and new business
opportunities, a decrease in retention or our underwriting teams, lower-than-

37




expected
yields and/or cash flows from our investment portfolio, higher-than-expected
claims activity and magnitude of incurred losses and general economic factors
that impact the reporting unit. In addition, previously determined market value
multiples and/or cash flows may no longer be relevant as a result of these
potential factors. As a result of these potential changes, the estimated fair
value of one or more of our reporting units may decrease, causing the carrying
value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit to exceed the fair value
of such net assets. If we determine an impairment exists, we adjust the
carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value. The impairment charge is
recorded in our income statement in the period in which the impairment is
determined. If we are required in the future to write down additional goodwill,
our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.
In connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill, the
use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
certain estimates and assumptions. Significant judgment is required in making these
estimates and assumptions, and actual results may ultimately be materially
different from such estimates and assumptions. The Company completed an interim
impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2011 which resulted in a non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $429.0 million. The charge related to the
Insurance segment. The remaining goodwill balance carried in our consolidated
financial statements at December 31, 2011 is $391.5 million.

Provisions in our
Articles of Association may reduce the voting rights of our ordinary shares.

          Our
Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for
each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative
basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting power that may be
exercised by certain persons or groups may not equal or exceed 10% or more of
the voting power conferred by our shares.

          In
particular, our Articles of Association provide that if, and for so long as,
the votes conferred by the Controlled Shares (as defined below) of any person
constitute 10% or more of the votes conferred by all our issued shares, the
voting rights with respect to the Controlled Shares of such person shall be
limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power equal to approximately (but
slightly less than) 10%, pursuant to a formula set forth in the our Articles of
Association. “Controlled Shares” of a person (as defined in our Articles of
Association) include (1) all of our shares owned directly, indirectly or constructively
by that person (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”), and (2) all of our shares owned directly,
indirectly or constructively by that person or any “group” of which that person
is a part, within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.

Provisions in our
Articles of Association may restrict the ownership and transfer of our ordinary
shares.

          Our
Articles of Association provide that our Board of Directors shall decline to
register a transfer of shares if it appears to our Board of Directors, whether
before or after such transfer, that the effect of such transfer would be to
increase the number of Controlled Shares of any person to 10% or more of any
class of our voting shares, of our total issued shares, or of the total voting
power of our total issued shares.

Certain provisions
in our charter documents could, among other things, impede an attempt to
replace our directors or imposes restrictions with respect to a change of
control, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares.

          Our
Articles of Association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for
shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of
control that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include a
staggered board of directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to
remove directors, limitations on voting rights and certain transfer
restrictions on our ordinary shares.

          As
an Irish company, we are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules, under which our
Board of Directors is not permitted to take any action that might “frustrate”
an offer for our shares once the Board of Directors has received an offer or
has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent without the approval of
more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of
shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit
the ability of the Board of Directors to take defensive actions even if the
Board of Directors believes that such defensive actions would be in the best
interests of the Company and its shareholders.

          The
Irish Takeover Rules also could discourage an investor from acquiring 30% or
more of our outstanding ordinary shares unless such investor was prepared to
make a bid to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares. Further, it could be
more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated
transaction because of heightened shareholder approval requirements for certain
types of transactions under Irish law.

          In
addition, insurance regulations in certain jurisdictions may also delay or
prevent a change of control or limit the ability of a shareholder to acquire in
excess of specified amounts of our ordinary shares.

Irish shareholder
voting requirements may limit flexibility with respect to certain aspects of
capital management.

          Irish
law allows shareholders to authorize a board of directors to issue shares
subsequent to receipt of authorization without further shareholder approval,
but this authorization must be renewed after five years. Additionally, subject
to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory pre-emption rights to
existing ordinary shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for
cash, but 

38




allows such
shareholders to authorize the waiver of such statutory pre-emption rights for
five years. Our Articles of Association currently provide authority to the
Board of Directors to issue shares without further shareholder approval and to
waive ordinary shareholders’ statutory pre-emption rights. However, these
authorizations expire in 2015, unless renewed by XL-Ireland’s shareholders, and
we can provide no assurance that these authorizations and waivers will always
be renewed, which could limit our ability to issue equity in the future.

It may be difficult
to enforce judgments against XL-Ireland, XL-Cayman or their directors and
executive officers.

          XL-Ireland
is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Ireland. In addition, certain of our
directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial
portion of our assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located
outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect
service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover on
judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors and officers, including
judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities
laws. We have been advised that there is no treaty between Ireland and the
United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments.
The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be
deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the judgment
 must be for a definite sum;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the judgment
 must be final and conclusive; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the judgment
 must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
 


          An
Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign
judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy,
if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with
an earlier foreign judgment.

          In
addition, XL-Cayman is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands
and is an Irish tax resident. Requirements for enforceability of foreign
judgments in Ireland are summarized above. We have been advised that there is
doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 judgments of
 U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal
 securities laws obtained in actions against XL-Cayman or its directors and
 officers who reside outside the United States; or 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 original
 actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL-Cayman
 predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.
 
 


          We
have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United
States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are
grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of U.S.
courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including
some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed
in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy.

The ultimate outcome
of lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits, that have been filed
against us by policyholders and security holders could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial condition, future operating results and/or
liquidity.

          We
are subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of our business.
See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” In addition, lawsuits have been filed against
us as discussed in Item 8, Note 17(g) to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
“Commitments and Contingencies – Claims and Other Litigation.” An adverse
resolution of one or more of these items could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.

Changes in current
accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our
reported financial results.

          Unanticipated
developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable
additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are
required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative
purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes
in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted
but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant
financial statement line items and the timing of when impairments and other
charges are tested or taken. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing
projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible
move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value”
based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of
insurance industry participants.

There is a
possibility that the Master Agreement entered into at the time of the sale of
Syncora and the related commutations and releases could be challenged or that
we could be subject to litigation as a result of the Master Agreement. Any such
challenge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations, liquidity or the market price of our securities.

          We
provided certain reinsurance protections (the “Reinsurance Agreements”) with
respect to adverse development on certain transactions as well as
indemnification under specific facultative and excess of loss coverages for
subsidiaries of Syncora: Syncora 

39




Guarantee Re
and Syncora Guarantee. At June 30, 2008, our total net exposure under
facultative agreements with Syncora subsidiaries was approximately $6.4 billion
of net par value outstanding. Pursuant to the closing of the Master Agreement,
all of these Reinsurance Agreements were commuted.

          In
addition, through one or more of our subsidiaries, we entered into certain
agreements with subsidiaries of Syncora pursuant to which we guaranteed certain
obligations of Syncora Guarantee Re and Syncora Guarantee under specific
agreements (the “Guarantee Agreements”). At June 30, 2008, the total net par
value outstanding of business written by subsidiaries of Syncora which fell
under the Guarantee Agreements was approximately $60 billion. Pursuant to the
terms of, and required conditions under, the Master Agreement, Syncora
Guarantee Re’s facultative quota share reinsurance agreement with Syncora
Guarantee, and all individual risk cessions thereunder, and the Financial
Security Master Facultative Agreement, and all individual risk cessions
thereunder, were commuted, thereby rendering the Syncora Guarantee Re guarantee
and Financial Security guarantee of no further force and effect.

          Following
the closing of the Master Agreement, Syncora and its applicable subsidiaries
were required to use commercially reasonable efforts to commute the underlying
financial guarantees that are the subject of the EIB Guarantees, which was
completed in June 2010.

          While
the New York Department of Financial Services (“NYDFS”) and the BMA approved
the Master Agreement and related agreements and transactions, including the
commutation of the agreements described above, and the Delaware Insurance
Department (“DID”) approved the Master Agreement and the commutation of the
Syncora Guarantee Re/Syncora Guarantee Quota Share, and although we believe the
effect of the Master Agreement and subsequent commutation of the EIB Guarantee
relieved us of all of our obligations under the Reinsurance Agreements and the
Guarantee Agreements no assurance can be given that the enforceability of the
Master Agreement, the agreements relating thereto and the transactions
contemplated thereunder will not be challenged, including under applicable
fraudulent transfer laws (described in the following paragraph) and/or by
asserting any number of other theories for recovery, including third-party
beneficiary rights, or that other litigation will not be commenced against us
as a result of the Master Agreement and such related agreements and
transactions. We believe that we would have significant defenses to any such
challenges and would vigorously defend against any such claims. However, we
cannot assure you that any such claims would not be made or, that any such
claims would not ultimately be successful.

          Under
federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer
laws (including those applicable in any state insurance insolvency proceeding)
Syncora’s commutation and release of our obligations pursuant to the Master
Agreement and related agreements would constitute a voidable fraudulent transfer
if it was determined that Syncora or any applicable subsidiary thereto, at the
time it entered into the Master Agreement or such related agreement:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 intended to
 hinder, delay or defraud its creditors; or
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 received
 less than “reasonably equivalent value” or “fair value consideration” for
 such release; and either:
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 was
 insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such occurrence; or
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 was engaged
 in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted
 unreasonably small capital; or
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 intended to
 incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such
 debts as they mature.
 
 


          Among
other regulatory approvals obtained in connection with the Master Agreement,
the NYDFS issued an approval letter to Syncora Guarantee under Section 1505 of
the New York Insurance Law and the DID issued an approval letter to Syncora
Guarantee Re under Section 5005(a) of the Delaware Insurance Code (effective
upon Syncora Guarantee Re’s redomestication to Delaware) (both of which require
that the terms of a transaction between an issuer and one or more of its
affiliates be fair and equitable) stating, in the case of NYDFS, that the terms
of the Master Agreement and each of the commutations are fair and equitable to
Syncora Guarantee and do not adversely affect policyholders of Syncora
Guarantee and, in the case of the DID, stating that the terms of the Master
Agreement and the commutation of the Syncora Guarantee Re/Syncora Guarantee
Quota Share were fair and equitable to Syncora Guarantee. The BMA (the
domiciliary regulator of Syncora Guarantee Re) also issued an approval letter
approving the Master Agreement and each commutation to which Syncora Guarantee
Re is a party, including the Syncora Guarantee Re/Syncora Guarantee Quota
Share. There can be no assurance that a court would agree with our, the
NYDFS’s, the DID’s, the BMA’s or Syncora’s conclusions, or as to what law or
standard a court would ultimately apply in making any such determination or as
to how such court would ultimately rule. Additionally, in the event of any
liquidation or rehabilitation or similar proceeding of any insurance subsidiary
of Syncora, there can be no assurance that any insurance regulator or
regulators responsible for such proceedings, in their capacity as liquidator or
rehabilitator, would respect the insurance regulatory approvals obtained in
connection with the Master Agreement.

We and our non-U.S.
insurance subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.

          We
take the position that neither we nor any of our non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent
establishment. Accordingly, we take the position that none of our non-U.S.
insurance subsidiaries should be 

40




subject to
U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium
income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding
tax on some types of U.S. source investment income). However, because there is
considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in
a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend successfully that we
or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or
business in the United States. If we or any of our non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United
States, any such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and
additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively
connected to such U.S. business, in which case our financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Changes in U.S. tax
law might adversely affect an investment in our shares.

          The
tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative
proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits
on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another
legislative proposal would modify the standards that indicate when a non-U.S.
corporation might be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax
purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the
U.S. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. that would severely
restrict the ability of a company to utilize affiliate reinsurance to manage
its U.S. risks and its capital position. Various proposals have been made that
would effectively disallow (in some cases permanently and in others
temporarily) part or all of the deduction for premiums ceded to affiliates If
any of these proposals, or a similar proposal using the same underlying
principles, is enacted, the resulting impact to the Company could have an
adverse impact on us or our shareholders. It is possible that other legislative
proposals could emerge in the future that could also have an adverse impact on
us or our shareholders. 

          Additionally,
the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding
whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent
establishment) within the United States or is a Passive Foreign Investment
Company (“PFIC”), or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their
gross income “subpart F income” or the related person insurance income, which
we refer to as “RPII” of a Controlled Foreign Corporation (“CFC”), are subject
to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations
regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the
regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or
pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We
cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements
may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.

          We
cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount
of U.S. tax payable by us. If an increase occurs, our financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

There is U.S. income
tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their
Bermuda affiliates.

          As
discussed above, Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to
eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of non-U.S. insurance companies and
U.S. insurance companies with non-U.S. affiliates, including perceived tax
benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance
companies and their non-U.S. affiliates. In this regard, section 845 of the IRS
Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or
adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a
reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper “amount,
source or character” for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only
covered “source and character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our
reinsurance arrangements under section 845, our financial condition and results
of operations could be materially adversely affected and the price of our
ordinary shares could be adversely affected.

The Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development has implemented measures (on Attribution
of profits to Permanent Establishments) that might change the manner in which
we are taxed.

          On
July 17, 2008, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the
“OECD”) issued the final version of its “Report on the Attribution of Profits
to Permanent Establishments” (the “Report”). The Report is the final report on
the OECD’s project to establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation
and practical application of Article 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on
Income and on Capital (“Article 7”). Article 7 sets forth international tax
principles for attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the
basis of an extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD
member countries and between many OECD member and non-member countries. Part IV
of the Report addresses the attribution of profits to a permanent establishment
of an enterprise that conducts insurance activities.

          The
OECD implemented the conclusions of the Report in two phases. First, to provide
improved certainty for the interpretation of existing treaties based on the
current text of Article 7, the OECD revised the commentary to the current
version of Article 7 to take into account the conclusions of the Report that
did not conflict with the existing interpretation of Article 7 reflected in the
previous commentary. Second, to reflect the full conclusions of the Report, the
OECD issued, on July 22, 2010, a new version of Article 7 and related
commentary to be used in the negotiation of new treaties and amendments to
existing treaties. The provisions of the final version of new Article 7 and
related commentary are not expected to change materially the manner in which we
are taxed.

41




If an investor
acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to taxation
under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules.

          Under
certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns 10% or more of the voting power
of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which 10% U.S.
shareholders own more than 50% of the voting power of the foreign corporation
or more than 25% of a foreign insurance company) for an uninterrupted period of
30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S.
federal income tax purposes such “10% U.S. Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the
CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed to
such 10% U.S. Shareholder, if such 10% U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or
indirectly through foreign entities) any shares of the foreign corporation on
the last day of the corporation’s taxable year. “Subpart F income” of a foreign
insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company
income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well
as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment
income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s
country of incorporation.

          While
provisions in our organizational documents limit voting power on our ordinary
shares, it is possible, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these
provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case an
investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected, if the investor
is considered to own 10% or more of our shares.

U.S. Persons who
hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to
be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

          If
we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person
who owns any of our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences,
including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and tax on amounts
in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investor’s
investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were
considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such
individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis
of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax
laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to
become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot provide
assurance, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS in the future.
If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences
for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are
currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an
insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying
these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such
guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income
taxation.

There are U.S.
income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our
non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

          If
(i) the related person insurance income, which we refer to as “RPII,” of any
one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that
subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons
were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or
value), a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly, on
the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be
required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that
person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year,
determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S.
holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The
amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally premium and related investment
income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or
indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that
holder) would depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons
directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do
not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our
non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result
in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot provide
absolute assurance that we will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable
year.

          The
RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in
a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% gross income
threshold was not met) and met the 25% ownership threshold at any time during
the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned
any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated
as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain
rules for determining a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s
undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that
the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits
are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to
comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of
shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of
our ordinary shares because XL-Ireland is not itself directly engaged in the
insurance business. We cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that the IRS
will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our
ordinary shares.

We and our Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future, which
may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and your investment.

          Our
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry of Finance in
Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed on profits,
income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 31, 2035. 

42




          The
exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so as to
prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily
resident in Bermuda (the Company and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are not
so currently designated) and to prevent the application of any tax payable in
accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in
relation to the land leased to us and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries.
XL-Ireland and other Bermuda-based subsidiaries not incorporated in Bermuda, as
permit companies under The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, have also received
similar exemptions, which are also expected to be extended to 2035. Our Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries are required to pay certain annual Bermuda government
fees and certain business fees as an insurer under The Insurance Act 1978 of
Bermuda. Currently there is no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends paid by our
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries to us.

XL-Cayman may become
subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.

          For
tax purposes, XL-Cayman is resident in Ireland by virtue of central management
and control. In the event Cayman introduces a corporate income tax based on
place of incorporation, XL-Cayman would be a dual resident company and
potentially subject to tax in both Ireland and Cayman. As there is no double
tax treaty between the Cayman Islands and Ireland, XL-Cayman could become
subject to taxation in both Ireland and Cayman. Under current Cayman Islands
law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on our income
or gains. We have received an undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the
Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as
amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i) no subsequently enacted law imposing any
tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to us and (ii) no
such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall
be payable on any of our ordinary shares, debentures or other obligations.
Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of
the Cayman Islands, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any
Cayman Islands tax after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and your
investment.

Our tax position
could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax
regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof.

          Our
tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties
or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax
authorities in Ireland, the United States and other jurisdictions, and such
changes may be more likely or become more likely in view of recent economic
trends in such jurisdictions, particularly if such trends continue. For
example, Ireland has suffered from the consequences of worldwide adverse
economic conditions and the credit ratings on its debt have been downgraded.
Such tax law changes could cause a material and adverse change in our worldwide
effective tax rate and we may have to take further action, at potentially
significant expense, to seek to mitigate the effect of such changes. Any future
amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other
jurisdictions, including the United States, could subject us to increased
taxation and/or potentially significant expense.

Dividends you
receive may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and Irish income tax.

          Dividend
withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends
paid on the Company’s ordinary shares. However, a number of exemptions from
dividend withholding tax exist such that ordinary shareholders resident in the
United States and ordinary shareholders resident in other specified countries
(listed in Annex F attached to the Redomestication Proxy Statement filed with
the SEC on March 10, 2010) may be entitled to exemptions from dividend
withholding tax if they complete and file certain dividend withholding tax
forms. Ordinary shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary
shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the
addresses of the beneficial owners of such ordinary shares in the records of
the brokers holding such ordinary shares are in the United States (so that such
brokers can further transmit the relevant information to a qualifying
intermediary appointed by the Company). Similarly, ordinary shareholders
resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary shares outside of DTC are not
subject to dividend withholding tax if such ordinary shareholders held ordinary
shares in the Company on January 12, 2010 and they provided a valid Form W-9
showing a U.S. address to the Company’s transfer agent. However, other ordinary
shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely
affect the price of our ordinary shares.

          In
addition, ordinary shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend
withholding tax on dividends received from the Company should not be subject to
Irish income tax in respect of those dividends, unless they have some
connection with Ireland other than their ordinary shareholdings in the Company.
Ordinary shareholders who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding
tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those
dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their
ordinary shareholding in the Company.

A future transfer of
your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book
entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.

          Transfers
of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry
interests in DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. The majority of our
ordinary shares will be traded through DTC, either directly or through brokers
who hold such ordinary shares on behalf of customers through DTC. However, if
you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC (or
through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of
your ordinary shares could be subject 

43




to Irish stamp
duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market
value of the ordinary shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is
generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty
could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 ITEM 1B